
    Hard green wood just cut, though I used but little of that,
answered my purpose better than any other.  I sometimes left a good
fire when I went to take a walk in a winter afternoon; and when I
returned, three or four hours afterward, it would be still alive and
glowing.  My house was not empty though I was gone.  It was as if I
had left a cheerful housekeeper behind.  It was I and Fire that
lived there; and commonly my housekeeper proved trustworthy.  One
day, however, as I was splitting wood, I thought that I would just
look in at the window and see if the house was not on fire; it was
the only time I remember to have been particularly anxious on this
score; so I looked and saw that a spark had caught my bed, and I
went in and extinguished it when it had burned a place as big as my
hand.  But my house occupied so sunny and sheltered a position, and
its roof was so low, that I could afford to let the fire go out in
the middle of almost any winter day.
    The moles nested in my cellar, nibbling every third potato, and
making a snug bed even there of some hair left after plastering and
of brown paper; for even the wildest animals love comfort and warmth
as well as man, and they survive the winter only because they are so
careful to secure them.  Some of my friends spoke as if I was coming
to the woods on purpose to freeze myself.  The animal merely makes a
bed, which he warms with his body, in a sheltered place; but man,
having discovered fire, boxes up some air in a spacious apartment,
and warms that, instead of robbing himself, makes that his bed, in
which he can move about divested of more cumbrous clothing, maintain
a kind of summer in the midst of winter, and by means of windows
even admit the light, and with a lamp lengthen out the day.  Thus he
goes a step or two beyond instinct, and saves a little time for the
fine arts.  Though, when I had been exposed to the rudest blasts a
long time, my whole body began to grow torpid, when I reached the
genial atmosphere of my house I soon recovered my faculties and
prolonged my life.  But the most luxuriously housed has little to
boast of in this respect, nor need we trouble ourselves to speculate
how the human race may be at last destroyed.  It would be easy to
cut their threads any time with a little sharper blast from the
north.  We go on dating from Cold Fridays and Great Snows; but a
little colder Friday, or greater snow would put a period to man's
existence on the globe.
    The next winter I used a small cooking-stove for economy, since
I did not own the forest; but it did not keep fire so well as the
open fireplace.  Cooking was then, for the most part, no longer a
poetic, but merely a chemic process.  It will soon be forgotten, in
these days of stoves, that we used to roast potatoes in the ashes,
after the Indian fashion.  The stove not only took up room and
scented the house, but it concealed the fire, and I felt as if I had
lost a companion.  You can always see a face in the fire.  The
laborer, looking into it at evening, purifies his thoughts of the
dross and earthiness which they have accumulated during the day.
But I could no longer sit and look into the fire, and the pertinent
words of a poet recurred to me with new force.--
