
A true friend of man; almost the only friend of human progress.  An
Old Mortality, say rather an Immortality, with unwearied patience
and faith making plain the image engraven in men's bodies, the God
of whom they are but defaced and leaning monuments.  With his
hospitable intellect he embraces children, beggars, insane, and
scholars, and entertains the thought of all, adding to it commonly
some breadth and elegance.  I think that he should keep a
caravansary on the world's highway, where philosophers of all
nations might put up, and on his sign should be printed,
"Entertainment for man, but not for his beast.  Enter ye that have
leisure and a quiet mind, who earnestly seek the right road."  He is
perhaps the sanest man and has the fewest crotchets of any I chance
to know; the same yesterday and tomorrow.  Of yore we had sauntered
and talked, and effectually put the world behind us; for he was
pledged to no institution in it, freeborn, ingenuus.  Whichever way
we turned, it seemed that the heavens and the earth had met
together, since he enhanced the beauty of the landscape.  A
blue-robed man, whose fittest roof is the overarching sky which
reflects his serenity.  I do not see how he can ever die; Nature
cannot spare him.
    Having each some shingles of thought well dried, we sat and
whittled them, trying our knives, and admiring the clear yellowish
grain of the pumpkin pine.  We waded so gently and reverently, or we
pulled together so smoothly, that the fishes of thought were not
scared from the stream, nor feared any angler on the bank, but came
and went grandly, like the clouds which float through the western
sky, and the mother-o'-pearl flocks which sometimes form and
dissolve there.  There we worked, revising mythology, rounding a
fable here and there, and building castles in the air for which
earth offered no worthy foundation.  Great Looker!  Great Expecter!
to converse with whom was a New England Night's Entertainment.  Ah!
such discourse we had, hermit and philosopher, and the old settler I
have spoken of -- we three -- it expanded and racked my little
house; I should not dare to say how many pounds' weight there was
above the atmospheric pressure on every circular inch; it opened its
seams so that they had to be calked with much dulness thereafter to
stop the consequent leak; -- but I had enough of that kind of oakum
already picked.
    There was one other with whom I had "solid seasons," long to be
remembered, at his house in the village, and who looked in upon me
from time to time; but I had no more for society there.
    There too, as everywhere, I sometimes expected the Visitor who
never comes.  The Vishnu Purana says, "The house-holder is to remain
at eventide in his courtyard as long as it takes to milk a cow, or
longer if he pleases, to await the arrival of a guest."  I often
performed this duty of hospitality, waited long enough to milk a
whole herd of cows, but did not see the man approaching from the
town.
