
    A single gentle rain makes the grass many shades greener.  So
our prospects brighten on the influx of better thoughts.  We should
be blessed if we lived in the present always, and took advantage of
every accident that befell us, like the grass which confesses the
influence of the slightest dew that falls on it; and did not spend
our time in atoning for the neglect of past opportunities, which we
call doing our duty.  We loiter in winter while it is already
spring.  In a pleasant spring morning all men's sins are forgiven.
Such a day is a truce to vice.  While such a sun holds out to burn,
the vilest sinner may return.  Through our own recovered innocence
we discern the innocence of our neighbors.  You may have known your
neighbor yesterday for a thief, a drunkard, or a sensualist, and
merely pitied or despised him, and despaired of the world; but the
sun shines bright and warm this first spring morning, recreating the
world, and you meet him at some serene work, and see how it is
exhausted and debauched veins expand with still joy and bless the
new day, feel the spring influence with the innocence of infancy,
and all his faults are forgotten.  There is not only an atmosphere
of good will about him, but even a savor of holiness groping for
expression, blindly and ineffectually perhaps, like a new-born
instinct, and for a short hour the south hill-side echoes to no
vulgar jest.  You see some innocent fair shoots preparing to burst
from his gnarled rind and try another year's life, tender and fresh
as the youngest plant.  Even he has entered into the joy of his
Lord.  Why the jailer does not leave open his prison doors -- why
the judge does not dismis his case -- why the preacher does not
dismiss his congregation!  It is because they do not obey the hint
which God gives them, nor accept the pardon which he freely offers
to all.
    "A return to goodness produced each day in the tranquil and
beneficent breath of the morning, causes that in respect to the love
of virtue and the hatred of vice, one approaches a little the
primitive nature of man, as the sprouts of the forest which has been
felled.  In like manner the evil which one does in the interval of a
day prevents the germs of virtues which began to spring up again
from developing themselves and destroys them.
    "After the germs of virtue have thus been prevented many times
from developing themselves, then the beneficent breath of evening
does not suffice to preserve them.  As soon as the breath of evening
does not suffice longer to preserve them, then the nature of man
does not differ much from that of the brute.  Men seeing the nature
of this man like that of the brute, think that he has never
possessed the innate faculty of reason.  Are those the true and
natural sentiments of man?"
