
    I heartily accept the motto, -- "That government is best which
governs least"; and I should like to see it acted up to more rapidly
and systematically.  Carried out, it finally amounts to this, which
also I believe, -- "That government is best which governs not at
all"; and when men are prepared for it, that will be the kind of
government which they will have.  Government is at best but an
expedient; but most governments are usually, and all governments are
sometimes, inexpedient.  The objections which have been brought
against a standing army, and they are many and weighty, and deserve
to prevail, may also at last be brought against a standing
government.  The standing army is only an arm of the standing
government.  The government itself, which is only the mode which the
people have chosen to execute their will, is equally liable to be
abused and perverted before the people can act through it.  Witness
the present Mexican war, the work of comparatively a few individuals
using the standing government as their tool; for, in the outset, the
people would not have consented to this measure.
    This American government -- what is it but a tradition, though a
recent one, endeavoring to transmit itself unimpaired to posterity,
but each instant losing some of its integrity?  It has not the
vitality and force of a single living man; for a single man can bend
it to his will.  It is a sort of wooden gun to the people
themselves.  But it is not the less necessary for this; for the
people must have some complicated machinery or other, and hear its
din, to satisfy that idea of government which they have.
Governments show thus how successfully men can be imposed on, even
impose on themselves, for their own advantage.  It is excellent, we
must all allow.  Yet this government never of itself furthered any
enterprise, but by the alacrity with which it got out of its way.
It does not keep the country free.  It does not settle the West.  It
does not educate.  The character inherent in the American people has
done all that has been accomplished; and it would have done somewhat
more, if the government had not sometimes got in its way.  For
government is an expedient by which men would fain succeed in
letting one another alone; and, as has been said, when it is most
expedient, the governed are most let alone by it.  Trade and
commerce, if they were not made of India rubber, would never manage
to bounce over the obstacles which legislators are continually
putting in their way; and, if one were to judge these men wholly by
the effects of their actions, and not partly by their intentions,
they would deserve to be classed and punished with those mischievous
persons who put obstructions on the railroads.
    But, to speak practically and as a citizen, unlike those who
call themselves no-government men, I ask for, not at once no
government, but at once a better government.  Let every man make
known what kind of government would command his respect, and that
will be one step toward obtaining it.
    After all, the practical reason why, when the power is once in
the hands of the people, a majority are permitted, and for a long
period continue, to rule, is not because they are most likely to be
in the right, nor because this seems fairest to the minority, but
because they are physically the strongest.  But a government in
which the majority rule in all cases cannot be based on justice,
even as far as men understand it.  Can there not be a government in
which majorities do not virtually decide right and wrong, but
conscience? -- in which majorities decide only those questions to
which the rule of expediency is applicable?  Must the citizen ever
for a moment, or in the least degree, resign his conscience to the
legislator?  Why has every man a conscience, then?  I think that we
should be men first, and subjects afterward.  It is not desirable to
cultivate a respect for the law, so much as for the right.  The only
obligation which I have a right to assume is to do at any time what
I think right.  It is truly enough said that a corporation has no
conscience; but a corporation of conscientious men is a corporation
with a conscience.  Law never made men a whit more just; and, by
means of their respect for it, even the well-disposed are daily made
the agents of injustice.  A common and natural result of an undue
respect for law is, that you may see a file of soldiers, colonel,
captain, corporal, privates, powder-monkeys, and all, marching in
admirable order over hill and dale to the wars, against their wills,
ay, against their common sense and consciences, which makes it very
steep marching indeed, and produces a palpitation of the heart.
They have no doubt that it is a damnable business in which they are
concerned; they are all peaceably inclined.  Now, what are they?
Men at all? or small movable forts and magazines, at the service of
some unscrupulous man in power?  Visit the Navy Yard, and behold a
marine, such a man as an American government can make, or such as it
can make a man with its black arts -- a mere shadow and reminiscence
of humanity, a man laid out alive and standing, and already, as one
may say, buried under arms with funeral accompaniments, though it
may be
           "Not a drum was heard, not a funeral note,
               As his corse to the rampart we hurried;
            Not a soldier discharged his farewell shot
               O'er the grave where our hero we buried."
