
    He who gives himself entirely to his fellow-men appears to them
useless and selfish; but he who gives himself partially to them is
pronounced a benefactor and philanthropist.
    How does it become a man to behave toward this American
government to-day?  I answer, that he cannot without disgrace be
associated with it.  I cannot for an instant recognize that
political organization as my government which is the slave's
government also.
    All men recognize the right of revolution; that is, the right to
refuse allegiance to, and to resist, the government, when its
tyranny or its inefficiency are great and unendurable.  But almost
all say that such is not the case now.  But such was the case, they
think, in the Revolution of '75.  If one were to tell me that this
was a bad government because it taxed certain foreign commodities
brought to its ports, it is most probable that I should not make an
ado about it, for I can do without them.  All machines have their
friction; and possibly this does enough good to counterbalance the
evil.  At any rate, it is a great evil to make a stir about it.  But
when the friction comes to have its machine, and oppression and
robbery are organized, I say, let us not have such a machine any
longer.  In other words, when a sixth of the population of a nation
which has undertaken to be the refuge of liberty are slaves, and a
whole country is unjustly overrun and conquered by a foreign army,
and subjected to military law, I think that it is not too soon for
honest men to rebel and revolutionize.  What makes this duty the
more urgent is the fact that the country so overrun is not our own,
but ours is the invading army.
    Paley, a common authority with many on moral questions, in his
chapter on the "Duty of Submission to Civil Government," resolves
all civil obligation into expediency; and he proceeds to say that
"so long as the interest of the whole society requires it, that is,
so long as the established government cannot be resisted or changed
without public inconveniency, it is the will of God... that the
established government be obeyed, and no longer....  This principle
being admitted, the justice of every particular case of resistance
is reduced to a computation of the quantity of the danger and
grievance on the one side, and of the probability and expense of
redressing it on the other."  Of this, he says, every man shall
judge for himself.  But Paley appears never to have contemplated
those cases to which the rule of expediency does not apply, in which
a people, as well as an individual, must do justice, cost what it
may.  If I have unjustly wrested a plank from a drowning man, I must
restore it to him though I drown myself.  This, according to Paley,
would be inconvenient.  But he that would save his life, in such a
case, shall lose it.  This people must cease to hold slaves, and to
make war on Mexico, though it cost them their existence as a people.
    In their practice, nations agree with Paley; but does any one
think that Massachusetts does exactly what is right at the present
crisis?
