
    When Winslow, afterward governor of the Plymouth Colony, went
with a companion on a visit of ceremony to Massasoit on foot through
the woods, and arrived tired and hungry at his lodge, they were well
received by the king, but nothing was said about eating that day.
When the night arrived, to quote their own words -- "He laid us on
the bed with himself and his wife, they at the one end and we at the
other, it being only planks laid a foot from the ground and a thin
mat upon them.  Two more of his chief men, for want of room, pressed
by and upon us; so that we were worse weary of our lodging than of
our journey."  At one o'clock the next day Massasoit "brought two
fishes that he had shot," about thrice as big as a bream.  "These
being boiled, there were at least forty looked for a share in them;
the most eat of them.  This meal only we had in two nights and a
day; and had not one of us bought a partridge, we had taken our
journey fasting."  Fearing that they would be light-headed for want
of food and also sleep, owing to "the savages' barbarous singing,
(for they use to sing themselves asleep,)" and that they might get
home while they had strength to travel, they departed.  As for
lodging, it is true they were but poorly entertained, though what
they found an inconvenience was no doubt intended for an honor; but
as far as eating was concerned, I do not see how the Indians could
have done better.  They had nothing to eat themselves, and they were
wiser than to think that apologies could supply the place of food to
their guests; so they drew their belts tighter and said nothing
about it.  Another time when Winslow visited them, it being a season
of plenty with them, there was no deficiency in this respect.
    As for men, they will hardly fail one anywhere.  I had more
visitors while I lived in the woods than at any other period in my
life; I mean that I had some.  I met several there under more
favorable circumstances than I could anywhere else.  But fewer came
to see me on trivial business.  In this respect, my company was
winnowed by my mere distance from town.  I had withdrawn so far
within the great ocean of solitude, into which the rivers of society
empty, that for the most part, so far as my needs were concerned,
only the finest sediment was deposited around me.  Beside, there
were wafted to me evidences of unexplored and uncultivated
continents on the other side.
    Who should come to my lodge this morning but a true Homeric or
Paphlagonian man -- he had so suitable and poetic a name that I am
sorry I cannot print it here -- a Canadian, a woodchopper and
post-maker, who can hole fifty posts in a day, who made his last
supper on a woodchuck which his dog caught.  He, too, has heard of
Homer, and, "if it were not for books," would "not know what to do
rainy days," though perhaps he has not read one wholly through for
many rainy seasons.  Some priest who could pronounce the Greek
itself taught him to read his verse in the Testament in his native
parish far away; and now I must translate to him, while he holds the
book, Achilles' reproof to Patroclus for his sad countenance. --
