
        This power, to be sure, is not clothed in satin.  'Tis the
power of Lynch law, of soldiers and pirates; and it bullies the
peaceable and loyal.  But it brings its own antidote; and here is my
point, -- that all kinds of power usually emerge at the same time;
good energy, and bad; power of mind, with physical health; the
ecstasies of devotion, with the exasperations of debauchery.  The
same elements are always present, only sometimes these conspicuous,
and sometimes those; what was yesterday foreground, being to-day
background, -- what was surface, playing now a not less effective
part as basis.  The longer the drought lasts, the more is the
atmosphere surcharged with water.  The faster the ball falls to the
sun, the force to fly off is by so much augmented.  And, in morals,
wild liberty breeds iron conscience; natures with great impulses have
great resources, and return from far.  In politics, the sons of
democrats will be whigs; whilst red republicanism, in the father, is
a spasm of nature to engender an intolerable tyrant in the next age.
On the other hand, conservatism, ever more timorous and narrow,
disgusts the children, and drives them for a mouthful of fresh air
into radicalism.
        Those who have most of this coarse energy, -- the `bruisers,'
who have run the gauntlet of caucus and tavern through the county or
the state, have their own vices, but they have the good nature of
strength and courage.  Fierce and unscrupulous, they are usually
frank and direct, and above falsehood.  Our politics fall into bad
hands, and churchmen and men of refinement, it seems agreed, are not
fit persons to send to Congress.  Politics is a deleterious
profession, like some poisonous handicrafts.  Men in power have no
opinions, but may be had cheap for any opinion, for any purpose, --
and if it be only a question between the most civil and the most
forcible, I lean to the last.  These Hoosiers and Suckers are really
better than the snivelling opposition.  Their wrath is at least of a
bold and manly cast.  They see, against the unanimous declarations of
the people, how much crime the people will bear; they proceed from
step to step, and they have calculated but too justly upon their
Excellencies, the New England governors, and upon their Honors, the
New England legislators.  The messages of the governors and the
resolutions of the legislatures, are a proverb for expressing a sham
virtuous indignation, which, in the course of events, is sure to be
belied.
        In trade, also, this energy usually carries a trace of
ferocity.  Philanthropic and religious bodies do not commonly make
their executive officers out of saints.  The communities hitherto
founded by Socialists, -- the Jesuits, the Port-Royalists, the
American communities at New Harmony, at Brook Farm, at Zoar, are only
possible, by installing Judas as steward.  The rest of the offices
may be filled by good burgesses.  The pious and charitable proprietor
has a foreman not quite so pious and charitable.  The most amiable of
country gentlemen has a certain pleasure in the teeth of the bull-dog
which guards his orchard.  Of the Shaker society, it was formerly a
sort of proverb in the country, that they always sent the devil to
market.  And in representations of the Deity, painting, poetry, and
popular religion have ever drawn the wrath from Hell.  It is an
esoteric doctrine of society, that a little wickedness is good to
make muscle; as if conscience were not good for hands and legs, as if
poor decayed formalists of law and order cannot run like wild goats,
wolves, and conies; that, as there is a use in medicine for poisons,
so the world cannot move without rogues; that public spirit and the
ready hand are as well found among the malignants.  'Tis not very
rare, the coincidence of sharp private and political practice, with
public spirit, and good neighborhood.
        I knew a burly Boniface who for many years kept a public-house
in one of our rural capitals.  He was a knave whom the town could ill
spare.  He was a social, vascular creature, grasping and selfish.
There was no crime which he did not or could not commit.  But he made
good friends of the selectmen, served them with his best chop, when
they supped at his house, and also with his honor the Judge, he was
very cordial, grasping his hand.  He introduced all the fiends, male
and female, into the town, and united in his person the functions of
bully, incendiary, swindler, barkeeper, and burglar.  He girdled the
trees, and cut off the horses' tails of the temperance people, in the
night.  He led the `rummies' and radicals in town-meeting with a
speech.  Meantime, he was civil, fat, and easy, in his house, and
precisely the most public-spirited citizen.  He was active in getting
the roads repaired and planted with shade-trees; he subscribed for
the fountains, the gas, and the telegraph; he introduced the new
horse-rake, the new scraper, the baby-jumper, and what not, that
Connecticut sends to the admiring citizens.  He did this the easier,
that the peddler stopped at his house, and paid his keeping, by
setting up his new trap on the landlord's premises.
        Whilst thus the energy for originating and executing work,
deforms itself by excess, and so our axe chops off our own fingers,
-- this evil is not without remedy.  All the elements whose aid man
calls in, will sometimes become his masters, especially those of most
subtle force.  Shall he, then, renounce steam, fire, and electricity,
or, shall he learn to deal with them?  The rule for this whole class
of agencies is, -- all _plus_ is good; only put it in the right
place.
        Men of this surcharge of arterial blood cannot live on nuts,
herb-tea, and elegies; cannot read novels, and play whist; cannot
satisfy all their wants at the Thursday Lecture, or the Boston
Athenaeum.  They pine for adventure, and must go to Pike's Peak; had
rather die by the hatchet of a Pawnee, than sit all day and every day
at a counting-room desk.  They are made for war, for the sea, for
mining, hunting, and clearing; for hair-breadth adventures, huge
risks, and the joy of eventful living.  Some men cannot endure an
hour of calm at sea.  I remember a poor Malay cook, on board a
Liverpool packet, who, when the wind blew a gale, could not contain
his joy; "Blow!" he cried, "me do tell you, blow!" Their friends and
governors must see that some vent for their explosive complexion is
provided.  The roisters who are destined for infamy at home, if sent
to Mexico, will "cover you with glory," and come back heroes and
generals.  There are Oregons, Californias, and Exploring Expeditions
enough appertaining to America, to find them in files to gnaw, and in
crocodiles to eat.  The young English are fine animals, full of
blood, and when they have no wars to breathe their riotous valors in,
they seek for travels as dangerous as war, diving into Maelstroms;
swimming Hellesponts; wading up the snowy Himmaleh; hunting lion,
rhinoceros, elephant, in South Africa; gypsying with Borrow in Spain
and Algiers; riding alligators in South America with Waterton;
utilizing Bedouin, Sheik, and Pacha, with Layard; yachting among the
icebergs of Lancaster Sound; peeping into craters on the equator; or
running on the creases of Malays in Borneo.
        The excess of virility has the same importance in general
history, as in private and industrial life.  Strong race or strong
individual rests at last on natural forces, which are best in the
savage, who, like the beasts around him, is still in reception of the
milk from the teats of Nature.  Cut off the connection between any of
our works, and this aboriginal source, and the work is shallow.  The
people lean on this, and the mob is not quite so bad an argument as
we sometimes say, for it has this good side.  "March without the
people," said a French deputy from the tribune, "and you march into
night: their instincts are a finger-pointing of Providence, always
turned toward real benefit.  But when you espouse an Orleans party,
or a Bourbon, or a Montalembert party, or any other but an organic
party, though you mean well, you have a personality instead of a
principle, which will inevitably drag you into a corner."
        The best anecdotes of this force are to be had from savage
life, in explorers, soldiers, and buccaneers.  But who cares for
fallings-out of assassins, and fights of bears, or grindings of
icebergs?  Physical force has no value, where there is nothing else.
Snow in snow-banks, fire in volcanoes and solfataras is cheap.  The
luxury of ice is in tropical countries, and midsummer days.  The
luxury of fire is, to have a little on our hearth: and of
electricity, not volleys of the charged cloud, but the manageable
stream on the battery-wires.  So of spirit, or energy; the rests or
remains of it in the civil and moral man, are worth all the cannibals
in the Pacific.
