
        In history, the great moment is, when the savage is just
ceasing to be a savage, with all his hairy Pelasgic strength directed
on his opening sense of beauty: -- and you have Pericles and Phidias,
-- not yet passed over into the Corinthian civility.  Everything good
in nature and the world is in that moment of transition, when the
swarthy juices still flow plentifully from nature, but their
astringency or acridity is got out by ethics and humanity.
        The triumphs of peace have been in some proximity to war.
Whilst the hand was still familiar with the sword-hilt, whilst the
habits of the camp were still visible in the port and complexion of
the gentleman, his intellectual power culminated: the compression and
tension of these stern conditions is a training for the finest and
softest arts, and can rarely be compensated in tranquil times, except
by some analogous vigor drawn from occupations as hardy as war.
        We say that success is constitutional; depends on a _plus_
condition of mind and body, on power of work, on courage; that it is
of main efficacy in carrying on the world, and, though rarely found
in the right state for an article of commerce, but oftener in the
supersaturate or excess, which makes it dangerous and destructive,
yet it cannot be spared, and must be had in that form, and absorbents
provided to take off its edge.
        The affirmative class monopolize the homage of mankind.  They
originate and execute all the great feats.  What a force was coiled
up in the skull of Napoleon!  Of the sixty thousand men making his
army at Eylau, it seems some thirty thousand were thieves and
burglars.  The men whom, in peaceful communities, we hold if we can,
with iron at their legs, in prisons, under the muskets of sentinels,
this man dealt with, hand to hand, dragged them to their duty, and
won his victories by their bayonets.
        This aboriginal might gives a surprising pleasure when it
appears under conditions of supreme refinement, as in the proficients
in high art.  When Michel Angelo was forced to paint the Sistine
Chapel in fresco, of which art he knew nothing, he went down into the
Pope's gardens behind the Vatican, and with a shovel dug out ochres,
red and yellow, mixed them with glue and water with his own hands,
and having, after many trials, at last suited himself, climbed his
ladders, and painted away, week after week, month after month, the
sibyls and prophets.  He surpassed his successors in rough vigor, as
much as in purity of intellect and refinement.  He was not crushed by
his one picture left unfinished at last.  Michel was wont to draw his
figures first in skeleton, then to clothe them with flesh, and lastly
to drape them.  "Ah!" said a brave painter to me, thinking on these
things, "if a man has failed, you will find he has dreamed instead of
working.  There is no way to success in our art, but to take off your
coat, grind paint, and work like a digger on the railroad, all day
and every day."
        Success goes thus invariably with a certain _plus_ or positive
power: an ounce of power must balance an ounce of weight.  And,
though a man cannot return into his mother's womb, and be born with
new amounts of vivacity, yet there are two economies, which are the
best _succedanea_ which the case admits.  The first is, the stopping
off decisively our miscellaneous activity, and concentrating our
force on one or a few points; as the gardener, by severe pruning,
forces the sap of the tree into one or two vigorous limbs, instead of
suffering it to spindle into a sheaf of twigs.
 
        "Enlarge not thy destiny," said the oracle: "endeavor not to do
more than is given thee in charge." The one prudence in life is
concentration; the one evil is dissipation: and it makes no
difference whether our dissipations are coarse or fine; property and
its cares, friends, and a social habit, or politics, or music, or
feasting.  Everything is good which takes away one plaything and
delusion more, and drives us home to add one stroke of faithful work.
Friends, books, pictures, lower duties, talents, flatteries, hopes,
-- all are distractions which cause oscillations in our giddy
balloon, and make a good poise and a straight course impossible.  You
must elect your work; you shall take what your brain can, and drop
all the rest.  Only so, can that amount of vital force accumulate,
which can make the step from knowing to doing.  No matter how much
faculty of idle seeing a man has, the step from knowing to doing is
rarely taken.  'Tis a step out of a chalk circle of imbecility into
fruitfulness.  Many an artist lacking this, lacks all: he sees the
masculine Angelo or Cellini with despair.  He, too, is up to Nature
and the First Cause in his thought.  But the spasm to collect and
swing his whole being into one act, he has not.  The poet Campbell
said, that "a man accustomed to work was equal to any achievement he
resolved on, and, that, for himself, necessity not inspiration was
the prompter of his muse."
        Concentration is the secret of strength in politics, in war, in
trade, in short, in all management of human affairs.  One of the high
anecdotes of the world is the reply of Newton to the inquiry, "how he
had been able to achieve his discoveries?" -- "By always intending my
mind." Or if you will have a text from politics, take this from
Plutarch: "There was, in the whole city, but one street in which
Pericles was ever seen, the street which led to the market-place and
the council house.  He declined all invitations to banquets, and all
gay assemblies and company.  During the whole period of his
administration, he never dined at the table of a friend." Or if we
seek an example from trade, -- "I hope," said a good man to
Rothyschild, "your children are not too fond of money and business: I
am sure you would not wish that." -- "I am sure I should wish that: I
wish them to give mind, soul, heart, and body to business, -- that is
the way to be happy.  It requires a great deal of boldness and a
great deal of caution, to make a great fortune, and when you have got
it, it requires ten times as much wit to keep it.  If I were to
listen to all the projects proposed to me, I should ruin myself very
soon.  Stick to one business, young man.  Stick to your brewery, (he
said this to young Buxton,) and you will be the great brewer of
London.  Be brewer, and banker, and merchant, and manufacturer, and
you will soon be in the Gazette."
