
        Many men are knowing, many are apprehensive and tenacious, but
they do not rush to a decision.  But in our flowing affairs a
decision must be made, -- the best, if you can; but any is better
than none.  There are twenty ways of going to a point, and one is the
shortest; but set out at once on one.  A man who has that presence of
mind which can bring to him on the instant all he knows, is worth for
action a dozen men who know as much, but can only bring it to light
slowly.  The good Speaker in the House is not the man who knows the
theory of parliamentary tactics, but the man who decides off-hand.
The good judge is not he who does hair-splitting justice to every
allegation, but who, aiming at substantial justice, rules something
intelligible for the guidance of suitors.  The good lawyer is not the
man who has an eye to every side and angle of contingency, and
qualifies all his qualifications, but who throws himself on your part
so heartily, that he can get you out of a scrape.  Dr. Johnson said,
in one of his flowing sentences, "Miserable beyond all names of
wretchedness is that unhappy pair, who are doomed to reduce
beforehand to the principles of abstract reason all the details of
each domestic day.  There are cases where little can be said, and
much must be done."
        The second substitute for temperament is drill, the power of
use and routine.  The hack is a better roadster than the Arab barb.
In chemistry, the galvanic stream, slow, but continuous, is equal in
power to the electric spark, and is, in our arts, a better agent.  So
in human action, against the spasm of energy, we offset the
continuity of drill.  We spread the same amount of force over much
time, instead of condensing it into a moment.  'Tis the same ounce of
gold here in a ball, and there in a leaf.  At West Point, Col.
Buford, the chief engineer, pounded with a hammer on the trunnions of
a cannon, until he broke them off.  He fired a piece of ordnance some
hundred times in swift succession, until it burst.  Now which stroke
broke the trunnion?  Every stroke.  Which blast burst the piece?
Every blast.  _"Diligence passe sens,"_ Henry VIII.  was wont to say,
or, great is drill.  John Kemble said, that the worst provincial
company of actors would go through a play better than the best
amateur company.  Basil Hall likes to show that the worst regular
troops will beat the best volunteers.  Practice is nine tenths.  A
course of mobs is good practice for orators.  All the great speakers
were bad speakers at first.  Stumping it through England for seven
years, made Cobden a consummate debater.  Stumping it through New
England for twice seven, trained Wendell Phillips.  The way to learn
German, is, to read the same dozen pages over and over a hundred
times, till you know every word and particle in them, and can
pronounce and repeat them by heart.  No genius can recite a ballad at
first reading, so well as mediocrity can at the fifteenth or
twentieth readying.  The rule for hospitality and Irish `help,' is,
to have the same dinner every day throughout the year.  At last, Mrs.
O'Shaughnessy learns to cook it to a nicety, the host learns to carve
it, and the guests are well served.  A humorous friend of mine
thinks, that the reason why Nature is so perfect in her art, and gets
up such inconceivably fine sunsets, is, that she has learned how, at
last, by dint of doing the same thing so very often.  Cannot one
converse better on a topic on which he has experience, than on one
which is new?  Men whose opinion is valued on 'Change, are only such
as have a special experience, and off that ground their opinion is
not valuable.  "More are made good by exercitation, than by nature,"
said Democritus.  The friction in nature is so enormous that we
cannot spare any power.  It is not question to express our thought,
to elect our way, but to overcome resistances of the medium and
material in everything we do.  Hence the use of drill, and the
worthlessness of amateurs to cope with practitioners.  Six hours
every day at the piano, only to give facility of touch; six hours a
day at painting, only to give command of the odious materials, oil,
ochres, and brushes.  The masters say, that they know a master in
music, only by seeing the pose of the hands on the keys; -- so
difficult and vital an act is the command of the instrument.  To have
learned the use of the tools, by thousands of manipulations; to have
learned the arts of reckoning, by endless adding and dividing, is the
power of the mechanic and the clerk.
        I remarked in England, in confirmation of a frequent experience
at home, that, in literary circles, the men of trust and
consideration, bookmakers, editors, university deans and professors,
bishops, too, were by no means men of the largest literary talent,
but usually of a low and ordinary intellectuality, with a sort of
mercantile activity and working talent.  Indifferent hacks and
mediocrities tower, by pushing their forces to a lucrative point, or
by working power, over multitudes of superior men, in Old as in New
England.
        I have not forgotten that there are sublime considerations
which limit the value of talent and superficial success.  We can
easily overpraise the vulgar hero.  There are sources on which we
have not drawn.  I know what I abstain from.  I adjourn what I have
to say on this topic to the chapters on Culture and Worship.  But
this force or spirit, being the means relied on by Nature for
bringing the work of the day about, -- as far as we attach importance
to household life, and the prizes of the world, we must respect that.
And I hold, that an economy may be applied to it; it is as much a
subject of exact law and arithmetic as fluids and gases are; it may
be husbanded, or wasted; every man is efficient only as he is a
container or vessel of this force, and never was any signal act or
achievement in history, but by this expenditure.  This is not gold,
but the gold-maker; not the fame, but the exploit.
        If these forces and this husbandry are within reach of our
will, and the laws of them can be read, we infer that all success,
and all conceivable benefit for man, is also, first or last, within
his reach, and has its own sublime economies by which it may be
attained.  The world is mathematical, and has no casualty, in all its
vast and flowing curve.  Success has no more eccentricity, than the
gingham and muslin we weave in our mills.  I know no more affecting
lesson to our busy, plotting New England brains, than to go into one
of the factories with which we have lined all the watercourses in the
States.  A man hardly knows how much he is a machine, until he begins
to make telegraph, loom, press, and locomotive, in his own image.
But in these, he is forced to leave out his follies and hindrances,
so that when we go to the mill, the machine is more moral than we.
Let a man dare go to a loom, and see if he be equal to it.  Let
machine confront machine, and see how they come out.  The world-mill
is more complex than the calico-mill, and the architect stooped less.
In the gingham-mill, a broken thread or a shred spoils the web
through a piece of a hundred yards, and is traced back to the girl
that wove it, and lessens her wages.  The stockholder, on being shown
this, rubs his hands with delight.  Are you so cunning, Mr.
Profitloss, and do you expect to swindle your master and employer, in
the web you weave?  A day is a more magnificent cloth than any
muslin, the mechanism that makes it is infinitely cunninger, and you
shall not conceal the sleezy, fraudulent, rotten hours you have
slipped into the piece, nor fear that any honest thread, or
straighter steel, or more inflexible shaft, will not testify in the
web.
 
 
 
        III
 
        WEALTH
 
 
        Who shall tell what did befall,
        Far away in time, when once,
        Over the lifeless ball,
        Hung idle stars and suns?
        What god the element obeyed?
        Wings of what wind the lichen bore,
        Wafting the puny seeds of power,
        Which, lodged in rock, the rock abrade?
        And well the primal pioneer
        Knew the strong task to it assigned
        Patient through Heaven's enormous year
        To build in matter home for mind.
        From air the creeping centuries drew
        The matted thicket low and wide,
        This must the leaves of ages strew
        The granite slab to clothe and hide,
        Ere wheat can wave its golden pride.
        What smiths, and in what furnace, rolled
        (In dizzy aeons dim and mute
        The reeling brain can ill compute)
        Copper and iron, lead, and gold?
        What oldest star the fame can save
        Of races perishing to pave
        The planet with a floor of lime?
        Dust is their pyramid and mole:
        Who saw what ferns and palms were pressed
        Under the tumbling mountain's breast, |P988
        In the safe herbal of the coal?
        But when the quarried means were piled,
        All is waste and worthless, till
        Arrives the wise selecting will,
        And, out of slime and chaos, Wit
        Draws the threads of fair and fit.
        Then temples rose, and towns, and marts,
        The shop of toil, the hall of arts;
        Then flew the sail across the seas
        To feed the North from tropic trees;
        The storm-wind wove, the torrent span,
        Where they were bid the rivers ran;
        New slaves fulfilled the poet's dream,
        Galvanic wire, strong-shouldered steam.
        Then docks were built, and crops were stored,
        And ingots added to the hoard.
        But, though light-headed man forget,
        Remembering Matter pays her debt:
        Still, through her motes and masses, draw
        Electric thrills and ties of Law,
        Which bind the strengths of Nature wild
        To the conscience of a child.
 
        _Wealth_
 
        As soon as a stranger is introduced into any compations which
all wish to have answered, is, How does that man get his living?  And
with reason.  He is no whole man until he knows how to earn a
blameless livelihood.  Society is barbarous, until every industrious
man can get his living without dishonest customs.
        Every man is a consumer, and ought to be a producer.  He fails
to make his place good in the world, unless he not only pays his
debt, but also adds something to the common wealth.  Nor can he do
justice to his genius, without making some larger demand on the world
than a bare subsistence.  He is by constitution expensive, and needs
to be rich.
