
        Wealth has its source in applications of the mind to nature,
from the rudest strokes of spade and axe, up to the last secrets of
art.  Intimate ties subsist between thought and all production;
because a better order is equivalent to vast amounts of brute labor.
The forces and the resistances are Nature's, but the mind acts in
bringing things from where they abound to where they are wanted; in
wise combining; in directing the practice of the useful arts, and in
the creation of finer values, by fine art, by eloquence, by song, or
the reproductions of memory.  Wealth is in applications of mind to
nature; and the art of getting rich consists not in industry, much
less in saving, but in a better order, in timeliness, in being at the
right spot.  One man has stronger arms, or longer legs; another sees
by the course of streams, and growth of markets, where land will be
wanted, makes a clearing to the river, goes to sleep, wakes up rich.
Steam is no stronger now, than it was a hundred years ago; but is put
to better use.  A clever fellow was acquainted with the expansive
force of steam; he also saw the wealth of wheat and grass rotting in
Michigan.  Then he cunningly screws on the steam-pipe to the
wheat-crop.  Puff now, O Steam!  The steam puffs and expands as
before, but this time it is dragging all Michigan at its back to
hungry New York and hungry England.  Coal lay in ledges under the
ground since the Flood, until a laborer with pick and windlass brings
it to the surface.  We may well call it black diamonds.  Every basket
is power and civilization.  For coal is a portable climate.  It
carries the heat of the tropics to Labrador and the polar circle: and
it is the means of transporting itself whithersoever it is wanted.
Watt and Stephenson whispered in the ear of mankind their secret,
that _a half-ounce of coal will draw two tons a mile_, and coal
carries coal, by rail and by boat, to make Canada as warm as
Calcutta, and with its comfort brings its industrial power.
        When the farmer's peaches are taken from under the tree, and
carried into town, they have a new look, and a hundredfold value over
the fruit which grew on the same bough, and lies fulsomely on the
ground.  The craft of the merchant is this bringing a thing from
where it abounds, to where it is costly.
        Wealth begins in a tight roof that keeps the rain and wind out;
in a good pump that yields you plenty of sweet water; in two suits of
clothes, so to change your dress when you are wet; in dry sticks to
burn; in a good double-wick lamp; and three meals; in a horse, or a
locomotive, to cross the land; in a boat to cross the sea; in tools
to work with; in books to read; and so, in giving, on all sides, by
tools and auxiliaries, the greatest possible extension to our powers,
as if it added feet, and hands, and eyes, and blood, length to the
day, and knowledge, and good-will.
        Wealth begins with these articles of necessity.  And here we
must recite the iron law which Nature thunders in these northern
climates.  First, she requires that each man should feed himself.
If, happily, his fathers have left him no inheritance, he must go to
work, and by making his wants less, or his gains more, he must draw
himself out of that state of pain and insult in which she forces the
beggar to lie.  She gives him no rest until this is done: she
starves, taunts, and torments him, takes away warmth, laughter,
sleep, friends, and daylight, until he has fought his way to his own
loaf.  Then, less peremptorily, but still with sting enough, she
urges him to the acquisition of such things as belong to him.  Every
warehouse and shop-window, every fruit-tree, every thought of every
hour, opens a new want to him, which it concerns his power and
dignity to gratify.  It is of no use to argue the wants down: the
philosophers have laid the greatness of man in making his wants few;
but will a man content himself with a hut and a handful of dried
pease?  He is born to be rich.  He is thoroughly related; and is
tempted out by his appetites and fancies to the conquest of this and
that piece of nature, until he finds his well-being in the use of his
planet, and of more planets than his own.  Wealth requires, besides
the crust of bread and the roof, -- the freedom of the city, the
freedom of the earth, travelling, machinery, the benefits of science,
music, and fine arts, the best culture, and the best company.  He is
the rich man who can avail himself of all men's faculties.  He is the
richest man who knows how to draw a benefit from the labors of the
greatest number of men, of men in distant countries, and in past
times.  The same correspondence that is between thirst in the
stomach, and water in the spring, exists between the whole of man and
the whole of nature.  The elements offer their service to him.  The
sea, washing the equator and the poles, offers its perilous aid, and
the power and empire that follow it, -- day by day to his craft and
audacity.  "Beware of me," it says, "but if you can hold me, I am the
key to all the lands." Fire offers, on its side, an equal power.
Fire, steam, lightning, gravity, ledges of rock, mines of iron, lead,
quicksilver, tin, and gold; forests of all woods; fruits of all
climates; animals of all habits; the powers of tillage; the fabrics
of his chemic laboratory; the webs of his loom; the masculine draught
of his locomotive, the talismans of the machine-shop; all grand and
subtile things, minerals, gases, ethers, passions, war, trade,
government, are his natural playmates, and, according to the
excellence of the machinery in each human being, is his attraction
for the instruments he is to employ.  The world is his tool-chest,
and he is successful, or his education is carried on just so far, as
is the marriage of his faculties with nature, or, the degree in which
he takes up things into himself.
        The strong race is strong on these terms.  The Saxons are the
merchants of the world; now, for a thousand years, the leading race,
and by nothing more than their quality of personal independence, and,
in its special modification, pecuniary independence.  No reliance for
bread and games on the government, no clanship, no patriarchal style
of living by the revenues of a chief, no marrying-on, -- no system of
clientship suits them; but every man must pay his scot.  The English
are prosperous and peaceable, with their habit of considering that
every man must take care of himself, and has himself to thank, if he
do not maintain and improve his position in society.
        The subject of economy mixes itself with morals, inasmuch as it
is a peremptory point of virtue that a man's independence be secured.
Poverty demoralizes.  A man in debt is so far a slave; and
Wall-street thinks it easy for a _millionaire_ to be a man of his
word, a man of honor, but, that, in failing circumstances, no man can
be relied on to keep his integrity.  And when one observes in the
hotels and palaces of our Atlantic capitals, the habit of expense,
the riot of the senses, the absence of bonds, clanship,
fellow-feeling of any kind, he feels, that, when a man or a woman is
driven to the wall, the chances of integrity are frightfully
diminished, as if virtue were coming to be a luxury which few could
afford, or, as Burke said, "at a market almost too high for
humanity." He may fix his inventory of necessities and of enjoyments
on what scale he pleases, but if he wishes the power and privilege of
thought, the chalking out his own career, and having society on his
own terms, he must bring his wants within his proper power to
satisfy.
        The manly part is to do with might and main what you can do.
The world is full of fops who never did anything, and who have
persuaded beauties and men of genius to wear their fop livery, and
these will deliver the fop opinion, that it is not respectable to be
seen earning a living; that it is much more respectable to spend
without earning; and this doctrine of the snake will come also from
the elect sons of light; for wise men are not wise at all hours, and
will speak five times from their taste or their humor, to once from
their reason.  The brave workman, who might betray his feeling of it
in his manners, if he do not succumb in his practice, must replace
the grace or elegance forfeited, by the merit of the work done.  No
matter whether he make shoes, or statues, or laws.  It is the
privilege of any human work which is well done to invest the doer
with a certain haughtiness.  He can well afford not to conciliate,
whose faithful work will answer for him.  The mechanic at his bench
carries a quiet heart and assured manners, and deals on even terms
with men of any condition.  The artist has made his picture so true,
that it disconcerts criticism.  The statue is so beautiful, that it
contracts no stain from the market, but makes the market a silent
gallery for itself.  The case of the young lawyer was pitiful to
disgust, -- a paltry matter of buttons or tweezer-cases; but the
determined youth saw in it an aperture to insert his dangerous
wedges, made the insignificance of the thing forgotten, and gave fame
by his sense and energy to the name and affairs of the Tittleton
snuffbox factory.
        Society in large towns is babyish, and wealth is made a toy.
The life of pleasure is so ostentatious, that a shallow observer must
believe that this is the agreed best use of wealth, and, whatever is
pretended, it ends in cosseting.  But, if this were the main use of
surplus capital, it would bring us to barricades, burned towns, and
tomahawks, presently.  Men of sense esteem wealth to be the
assimilation of nature to themselves, the converting of the sap and
juices of the planet to the incarnation and nutriment of their
design.  Power is what they want, -- not candy; -- power to execute
their design, power to give legs and feet, form and actuality to
their thought, which, to a clear-sighted man, appears the end for
which the Universe exists, and all its resources might be well
applied.  Columbus thinks that the sphere is a problem for practical
navigation, as well as for closet geometry, and looks on all kings
and peoples as cowardly landsmen, until they dare fit him out.  Few
men on the planet have more truly belonged to it.  But he was forced
to leave much of his map blank.  His successors inherited his map,
and inherited his fury to complete it.
