
        So the men of the mine, telegraph, mill, map, and survey,-- the
monomaniacs, who talk up their project in marts, and offices, and
entreat men to subscribe: -- how did our factories get built? how did
North America get netted with iron rails, except by the importunity
of these orators, who dragged all the prudent men in?  Is party the
madness of many for the gain of a few?  This _speculative_ genius is
the madness of few for the gain of the world.  The projectors are
sacrificed, but the public is the gainer.  Each of these idealists,
working after his thought, would make it tyrannical, if he could.  He
is met and antagonized by other speculators, as hot as he.  The
equilibrium is preserved by these counteractions, as one tree keeps
down another in the forest, that it may not absorb all the sap in the
ground.  And the supply in nature of railroad presidents,
copper-miners, grand-junctioners, smoke-burners, fire-annihilators,
&c., is limited by the same law which keeps the proportion in the
supply of carbon, of alum, and of hydrogen.
        To be rich is to have a ticket of admission to the master-works
and chief men of each race.  It is to have the sea, by voyaging; to
visit the mountains, Niagara, the Nile, the desert, Rome, Paris,
Constantinople; to see galleries, libraries, arsenals, manufactories.
The reader of Humboldt's "Cosmos" follows the marches of a man whose
eyes, ears, and mind are armed by all the science, arts, and
implements which mankind have anywhere accumulated, and who is using
these to add to the stock.  So is it with Denon, Beckford, Belzoni,
Wilkinson, Layard, Kane, Lepsius, and Livingston.  "The rich man,"
says Saadi, "is everywhere expected and at home." The rich take up
something more of the world into man's life.  They include the
country as well as the town, the ocean-side, the White Hills, the Far
West, and the old European homesteads of man, in their notion of
available material.  The world is his, who has money to go over it.
He arrives at the sea-shore, and a sumptuous ship has floored and
carpeted for him the stormy Atlantic, and made it a luxurious hotel,
amid the horrors of tempests.  The Persians say, "'Tis the same to
him who wears a shoe, as if the whole earth were covered with
leather."
        Kings are said to have long arms, but every man should have
long arms, and should pluck his living, his instruments, his power,
and his knowing, from the sun, moon, and stars.  Is not then the
demand to be rich legitimate?  Yet, I have never seen a rich man.  I
have never seen a man as rich as all men ought to be, or, with an
adequate command of nature.  The pulpit and the press have many
commonplaces denouncing the thirst for wealth; but if men should take
these moralists at their word, and leave off aiming to be rich, the
moralists would rush to rekindle at all hazards this love of power in
the people, lest civilization should be undone.  Men are urged by
their ideas to acquire the command over nature.  Ages derive a
culture from the wealth of Roman Caesars, Leo Tenths, magnificent
Kings of France, Grand Dukes of Tuscany, Dukes of Devonshire,
Townleys, Vernons, and Peels, in England; or whatever great
proprietors.  It is the interest of all men, that there should be
Vaticans and Louvres full of noble works of art; British Museums, and
French Gardens of Plants, Philadelphia Academies of Natural History,
Bodleian, Ambrosian, Royal, Congressional Libraries.  It is the
interest of all that there should be Exploring Expeditions; Captain
Cooks to voyage round the world, Rosses, Franklins, Richardsons, and
Kanes, to find the magnetic and the geographic poles.  We are all
richer for the measurement of a degree of latitude on the earth's
surface.  Our navigation is safer for the chart.  How intimately our
knowledge of the system of the Universe rests on that!  -- and a true
economy in a state or an individual will forget its frugality in
behalf of claims like these.
        Whilst it is each man's interest, that, not only ease and
convenience of living, but also wealth or surplus product should
exist somewhere, it need not be in his hands.  Often it is very
undesirable to him.  Goethe said well, "nobody should be rich but
those who understand it." Some men are born to own, and can animate
all their possessions.  Others cannot: their owning is not graceful;
seems to be a compromise of their character: they seem to steal their
own dividends.  They should own who can administer; not they who
hoard and conceal; not they who, the greater proprietors they are,
are only the greater beggars, but they whose work carves out work for
more, opens a path for all.  For he is the rich man in whom the
people are rich, and he is the poor man in whom the people are poor:
and how to give all access to the masterpieces of art and nature, is
the problem of civilization.  The socialism of our day has done good
service in setting men on thinking how certain civilizing benefits,
now only enjoyed by the opulent, can be enjoyed by all.  For example,
the providing to each man the means and apparatus of science, and of
the arts.  There are many articles good for occasional use, which few
men are able to own.  Every man wishes to see the ring of Saturn, the
satellites and belts of Jupiter and Mars; the mountains and craters
in the moon: yet how few can buy a telescope! and of those, scarcely
one would like the trouble of keeping it in order, and exhibiting it.
So of electrical and chemical apparatus, and many the like things.
Every man may have occasion to consult books which he does not care
to possess, such as cyclopaedias, dictionaries, tables, charts, maps,
and public documents: pictures also of birds, beasts, fishes, shells,
trees, flowers, whose names he desires to know.
        There is a refining influence from the arts of Design on a
prepared mind, which is as positive as that of music, and not to be
supplied from any other source.  But pictures, engravings, statues,
and casts, beside their first cost, entail expenses, as of galleries
and keepers for the exhibition; and the use which any man can make of
them is rare, and their value, too, is much enhanced by the numbers
of men who can share their enjoyment.  In the Greek cities, it was
reckoned profane, that any person should pretend a property in a work
of art, which belonged to all who could behold it.  I think
sometimes, -- could I only have music on my own terms; -- could I
live in a great city, and know where I could go whenever I wished the
ablution and inundation of musical waves, -- that were a bath and a
medicine.
        If properties of this kind were owned by states, towns, and
lyceums, they would draw the bonds of neighborhood closer.  A town
would exist to an intellectual purpose.  In Europe, where the feudal
forms secure the permanence of wealth in certain families, those
families buy and preserve these things, and lay them open to the
public.  But in America, where democratic institutions divide every
estate into small portions, after a few years, the public should step
into the place of these proprietors, and provide this culture and
inspiration for the citizen.
        Man was born to be rich, or, inevitably grows rich by the use
of his faculties; by the union of thought with nature.  Property is
an intellectual production.  The game requires coolness, right
reasoning, promptness, and patience in the players.  Cultivated labor
drives out brute labor.  An infinite number of shrewd men, in
infinite years, have arrived at certain best and shortest ways of
doing, and this accumulated skill in arts, cultures, harvestings,
curings, manufactures, navigations, exchanges, constitutes the worth
of our world to-day.
        Commerce is a game of skill, which every man cannot play, which
few men can play well.  The right merchant is one who has the just
average of faculties we call _common sense_; a man of a strong
affinity for facts, who makes up his decision on what he has seen.
He is thoroughly persuaded of the truths of arithmetic.  There is
always a reason, _in the man_, for his good or bad fortune, and so,
in making money.  Men talk as if there were some magic about this,
and believe in magic, in all parts of life.  He knows, that all goes
on the old road, pound for pound, cent for cent, -- for every effect
a perfect cause, -- and that good luck is another name for tenacity
of purpose.  He insures himself in every transaction, and likes small
and sure gains.  Probity and closeness to the facts are the basis,
but the masters of the art add a certain long arithmetic.  The
problem is, to combine many and remote operations, with the accuracy
and adherence to the facts, which is easy in near and small
transactions; so to arrive at gigantic results, without any
compromise of safety.  Napoleon was fond of telling the story of the
Marseilles banker, who said to his visitor, surprised at the contrast
between the splendor of the banker's chateau and hospitality, and the
meanness of the counting-room in which he had seen him, -- "Young
man, you are too young to understand how masses are formed, -- the
true and only power, -- whether composed of money, water, or men, it
is all alike, -- a mass is an immense centre of motion, but it must
be begun, it must be kept up:" -- and he might have added, that the
way in which it must be begun and kept up, is, by obedience to the
law of particles.
