
        Success consists in close appliance to the laws of the world,
and, since those laws are intellectual and moral, an intellectual and
moral obedience.  Political Economy is as good a book wherein to read
the life of man, and the ascendency of laws over all private and
hostile influences, as any Bible which has come down to us.
        Money is representative, and follows the nature and fortunes of
the owner.  The coin is a delicate meter of civil, social, and moral
changes.  The farmer is covetous of his dollar, and with reason.  It
is no waif to him.  He knows how many strokes of labor it represents.
His bones ache with the day's work that earned it.  He knows how much
land it represents; -- how much rain, frost, and sunshine.  He knows
that, in the dollar, he gives you so much discretion and patience so
much hoeing, and threshing.  Try to lift his dollar; you must lift
all that weight.  In the city, where money follows the skit of a pen,
or a lucky rise in exchange, it comes to be looked on as light.  I
wish the farmer held it dearer, and would spend it only for real
bread; force for force.
        The farmer's dollar is heavy, and the clerk's is light and
nimble; leaps out of his pocket; jumps on to cards and faro-tables:
but still more curious is its susceptibility to metaphysical changes.
It is the finest barometer of social storms, and announces
revolutions.
        Every step of civil advancement makes every man's dollar worth
more.  In California, the country where it grew, -- what would it
buy?  A few years since, it would buy a shanty, dysentery, hunger,
bad company, and crime.  There are wide countries, like Siberia,
where it would buy little else to-day, than some petty mitigation of
suffering.  In Rome, it will buy beauty and magnificence.  Forty
years ago, a dollar would not buy much in Boston.  Now it will buy a
great deal more in our old town, thanks to railroads, telegraphs,
steamers, and the contemporaneous growth of New York, and the whole
country.  Yet there are many goods appertaining to a capital city,
which are not yet purchasable here, no, not with a mountain of
dollars.  A dollar in Florida is not worth a dollar in Massachusetts.
A dollar is not value, but representative of value, and, at last, of
moral values.  A dollar is rated for the corn it will buy, or to
speak strictly, not for the corn or house-room, but for Athenian
corn, and Roman house-room, -- for the wit, probity, and power, which
we eat bread and dwell in houses to share and exert.  Wealth is
mental; wealth is moral.  The value of a dollar is, to buy just
things: a dollar goes on increasing in value with all the genius, and
all the virtue of the world.  A dollar in a university, is worth more
than a dollar in a jail; in a temperate, schooled, law-abiding
community, than in some sink of crime, where dice, knives, and
arsenic, are in constant play.
        The "Bank-Note Detector" is a useful publication.  But the
current dollar, silver or paper, is itself the detector of the right
and wrong where it circulates.  Is it not instantly enhanced by the
increase of equity?  If a trader refuses to sell his vote, or adheres
to some odious right, he makes so much more equity in Massachusetts;
and every acre in the State is more worth, in the hour of his action.
If you take out of State-street the ten honestest merchants, and put
in ten roguish persons, controlling the same amount of capital, --
the rates of insurance will indicate it; the soundness of banks will
show it: the highways will be less secure: the schools will feel it;
the children will bring home their little dose of the poison: the
judge will sit less firmly on the bench, and his decisions be less
upright; he has lost so much support and constraint, -- which all
need; and the pulpit will betray it, in a laxer rule of life.  An
apple-tree, if you take out every day for a number of days, a load of
loam, and put in a load of sand about its roots, -- will find it out.
An apple-tree is a stupid kind of creature, but if this treatment be
pursued for a short time, I think it would begin to mistrust
something.  And if you should take out of the powerful class engaged
in trade a hundred good men, and put in a hundred bad, or, what is
just the same thing, introduce a demoralizing institution, would not
the dollar, which is not much stupider than an apple-tree, presently
find it out?  The value of a dollar is social, as it is created by
society.  Every man who removes into this city, with any purchasable
talent or skill in him, gives to every man's labor in the city, a new
worth.  If a talent is anywhere born into the world, the community of
nations is enriched; and, much more, with a new degree of probity.
The expense of crime, one of the principal charges of every nation,
is so far stopped.  In Europe, crime is observed to increase or abate
with the price of bread.  If the Rothschilds at Paris do not accept
bills, the people at Manchester, at Paisley, at Birmingham, are
forced into the highway, and landlords are shot down in Ireland.  The
police records attest it.  The vibrations are presently felt in New
York, New Orleans, and Chicago.  Not much otherwise, the economical
power touches the masses through the political lords.  Rothschild
refuses the Russian loan, and there is peace, and the harvests are
saved.  He takes it, and there is war, and an agitation through a
large portion of mankind, with every hideous result, ending in
revolution, and a new order.
        Wealth brings with it its own checks and balances.  The basis
of political economy is non-interference.  The only safe rule is
found in the self-adjusting meter of demand and supply.  Do not
legislate.  Meddle, and you snap the sinews with your sumptuary laws.
Give no bounties: make equal laws: secure life and property, and you
need not give alms.  Open the doors of opportunity to talent and
virtue, and they will do themselves justice, and property will not be
in bad hands.  In a free and just commonwealth, property rushes from
the idle and imbecile, to the industrious, brave, and persevering.
        The laws of nature play through trade, as a toy-battery
exhibits the effects of electricity.  The level of the sea is not
more surely kept, than is the equilibrium of value in society, by the
demand and supply: and artifice or legislation punishes itself, by
reactions, gluts, and bankruptcies.  The sublime laws play
indifferently through atoms and galaxies.  Whoever knows what happens
in the getting and spending of a loaf of bread and a pint of beer;
that no wishing will change the rigorous limits of pints and penny
loaves; that, for all that is consumed, so much less remains in the
basket and pot; but what is gone out of these is not wasted, but well
spent, if it nourish his body, and enable him to finish his task; --
knows all of political economy that the budgets of empires can teach
him.  The interest of petty economy is this symbolization of the
great economy; the way in which a house, and a private man's methods,
tally with the solar system, and the laws of give and take,
throughout nature; and, however wary we are of the falsehoods and
petty tricks which we suicidally play off on each other, every man
has a certain satisfaction, whenever his dealing touches on the
inevitable facts; when he sees that things themselves dictate the
price, as they always tend to do, and, in large manufactures, are
seen to do.  Your paper is not fine or coarse enough, -- is too
heavy, or too thin.  The manufacturer says, he will furnish you with
just that thickness or thinness you want; the pattern is quite
indifferent to him; here is his schedule; -- any variety of paper, as
cheaper or dearer, with the prices annexed.  A pound of paper costs
so much, and you may have it made up in any pattern you fancy.
        There is in all our dealings a self-regulation that supersedes
chaffering.  You will rent a house, but must have it cheap.  The
owner can reduce the rent, but so he incapacitates himself from
making proper repairs, and the tenant gets not the house he would
have, but a worse one; besides, that a relation a little injurious is
established between land-lord and tenant.  You dismiss your laborer,
saying, "Patrick, I shall send for you as soon as I cannot do without
you." Patrick goes off contented, for he knows that the weeds will
grow with the potatoes, the vines must be planted, next week, and,
however unwilling you may be, the cantelopes, crook-necks, and
cucumbers will send for him.  Who but must wish that all labor and
value should stand on the same simple and surly market?  If it is the
best of its kind, it will.  We must have joiner, locksmith, planter,
priest, poet, doctor, cook, weaver, ostler; each in turn, through the
year.
