
        If a St. Michael's pear sells for a shilling, it costs a
shilling to raise it.  If, in Boston, the best securities offer
twelve _per cent_.  for money, they have just six _per cent_.  of
insecurity.  You may not see that the fine pear costs you a shilling,
but it costs the community so much.  The shilling represents the
number of enemies the pear has, and the amount of risk in ripening
it.  The price of coal shows the narrowness of the coal-field, and a
compulsory confinement of the miners to a certain district.  All
salaries are reckoned on contingent, as well as on actual services.
"If the wind were always southwest by west," said the skipper, "women
might take ships to sea." One might say, that all things are of one
price; that nothing is cheap or dear; and that the apparent
disparities that strike us, are only a shopman's trick of concealing
the damage in your bargain.  A youth coming into the city from his
native New Hampshire farm, with its hard fare still fresh in his
remembrance, boards at a first-class hotel, and believes he must
somehow have outwitted Dr. Franklin and Malthus, for luxuries are
cheap.  But he pays for the one convenience of a better dinner, by
the loss of some of the richest social and educational advantages.
He has lost what guards! what incentives!  He will perhaps find by
and by, that he left the Muses at the door of the hotel, and found
the Furies inside.  Money often costs too much, and power and
pleasure are not cheap.  The ancient poet said, "the gods sell all
things at a fair price."
        There is an example of the compensations in the commercial
history of this country.  When the European wars threw the
carrying-trade of the world, from 1800 to 1812, into American
bottoms, a seizure was now and then made of an American ship.  Of
course, the loss was serious to the owner, but the country was
indemnified; for we charged threepence a pound for carrying cotton,
sixpence for tobacco, and so on; which paid for the risk and loss,
and brought into the country an immense prosperity, early marriages,
private wealth, the building of cities, and of states: and, after the
war was over, we received compensation over and above, by treaty, for
all the seizures.  Well, the Americans grew rich and great.  But the
pay-day comes round.  Britain, France, and Germany, which our
extraordinary profits had impoverished, send out, attracted by the
fame of our advantages, first their thousands, then their millions,
of poor people, to share the crop.  At first, we employ them, and
increase our prosperity: but, in the artificial system of society and
of protected labor, which we also have adopted and enlarged, there
come presently checks and stoppages.  Then we refuse to employ these
poor men.  But they will not so be answered.  They go into the poor
rates, and, though we refuse wages, we must now pay the same amount
in the form of taxes.  Again, it turns out that the largest
proportion of crimes are committed by foreigners.  The cost of the
crime, and the expense of courts, and of prisons, we must bear, and
the standing army of preventive police we must pay.  The cost of
education of the posterity of this great colony, I will not compute.
But the gross amount of these costs will begin to pay back what we
thought was a net gain from our transatlantic customers of 1800.  It
is vain to refuse this payment.  We cannot get rid of these people,
and we cannot get rid of their will to be supported.  That has become
an inevitable element of our politics; and, for their votes, each of
the dominant parties courts and assists them to get it executed.
Moreover, we have to pay, not what would have contented them at home,
but what they have learned to think necessary here; so that opinion,
fancy, and all manner of moral considerations complicate the problem.
        There are a few measures of economy which will bear to be named
without disgust; for the subject is tender, and we may easily have
too much of it; and therein resembles the hideous animalcules of
which our bodies are built up, -- which, offensive in the particular,
yet compose valuable and effective masses.  Our nature and genius
force us to respect ends, whilst we use means.  We must use the
means, and yet, in our most accurate using, somehow screen and cloak
them, as we can only give them any beauty, by a reflection of the
glory of the end.  That is the good head, which serves the end, and
commands the means.  The rabble are corrupted by their means: the
means are too strong for them, and they desert their end.
        1. The first of these measures is that each man's expense must
proceed from his character.  As long as your genius buys, the
investment is safe, though you spend like a monarch.  Nature arms
each man with some faculty which enables him to do easily some feat
impossible to any other, and thus makes him necessary to society.
This native determination guides his labor and his spending.  He
wants an equipment of means and tools proper to his talent.  And to
save on this point, were to neutralize the special strength and
helpfulness of each mind.  Do your work, respecting the excellence of
the work, and not its acceptableness.  This is so much economy, that,
rightly read, it is the sum of economy.  Profligacy consists not in
spending years of time or chests of money, -- but in spending them
off the line of your career.  The crime which bankrupts men and
states, is, job-work; -- declining from your main design, to serve a
turn here or there.  Nothing is beneath you, if it is in the
direction of your life: nothing is great or desirable, if it is off
from that.  I think we are entitled here to draw a straight line, and
say, that society can never prosper, but must always be bankrupt,
until every man does that which he was created to do.
        Spend for your expense, and retrench the expense which is not
yours.  Allston, the painter, was wont to say, that he built a plain
house, and filled it with plain furniture, because he would hold out
no bribe to any to visit him, who had not similar tastes to his own.
We are sympathetic, and, like children, want everything we see.  But
it is a large stride to independence,-- when a man, in the discovery
of his proper talent, has sunk the necessity for false expenses.  As
the betrothed maiden, by one secure affection, is relieved from a
system of slaveries, -- the daily inculcated necessity of pleasing
all, -- so the man who has found what he can do, can spend on that,
and leave all other spending.  Montaigne said, "When he was a younger
brother, he went brave in dress and equipage, but afterward his
chateau and farms might answer for him." Let a man who belongs to the
class of nobles, those, namely, who have found out that they can do
something, relieve himself of all vague squandering on objects not
his.  Let the realist not mind appearances.  Let him delegate to
others the costly courtesies and decorations of social life.  The
virtues are economists, but some of the vices are also.  Thus, next
to humility, I have noticed that pride is a pretty good husband.  A
good pride is, as I reckon it, worth from five hundred to fifteen
hundred a year.  Pride is handsome, economical: pride eradicates so
many vices, letting none subsist but itself, that it seems as if it
were a great gain to exchange vanity for pride.  Pride can go without
domestics, without fine clothes, can live in a house with two rooms,
can eat potato, purslain, beans, lyed corn, can work on the soil, can
travel afoot, can talk with poor men, or sit silent well-contented in
fine saloons.  But vanity costs money, labor, horses, men, women,
health, and peace, and is still nothing at last, a long way leading
nowhere.  -- Only one drawback; proud people are intolerably selfish,
and the vain are gentle and giving.
        Art is a jealous mistress, and, if a man have a genius for
painting, poetry, music, architecture, or philosophy, he makes a bad
husband, and an ill provider, and should be wise in season, and not
fetter himself with duties which will embitter his days, and spoil
him for his proper work.  We had in this region, twenty years ago,
among our educated men, a sort of Arcadian fanaticism, a passionate
desire to go upon the land, and unite farming to intellectual
pursuits.  Many effected their purpose, and made the experiment, and
some became downright ploughmen; but all were cured of their faith
that scholarship and practical farming, (I mean, with one's own
hands,) could be united.
        With brow bent, with firm intent, the pale scholar leaves his
desk to draw a freer breath, and get a juster statement of his
thought, in the garden-walk.  He stoops to pull up a purslain, or a
dock, that is choking the young corn, and finds there are two: close
behind the last, is a third; he reaches out his hand to a fourth;
behind that, are four thousand and one.  He is heated and untuned,
and, by and by, wakes up from his idiot dream of chickweed and
red-root, to remember his morning thought, and to find, that, with
his adamantine purposes, he has been duped by a dandelion.  A garden
is like those pernicious machineries we read of, every month, in the
newspapers, which catch a man's coat-skirt or his hand, and draw in
his arm, his leg, and his whole body to irresistible destruction.  In
an evil hour he pulled down his wall, and added a field to his
homestead.  No land is bad, but land is worse.  If a man own land,
the land owns him.  Now let him leave home, if he dare.  Every tree
and graft, every hill of melons, row of corn, or quickset hedge, all
he has done, and all he means to do, stand in his way, like duns,
when he would go out of his gate.  The devotion to these vines and
trees he finds poisonous.  Long free walks, a circuit of miles, free
his brain, and serve his body.  Long marches are no hardship to him.
He believes he composes easily on the hills.  But this pottering in a
few square yards of garden is dispiriting and drivelling.  The smell
of the plants has drugged him, and robbed him of energy.  He finds a
catalepsy in his bones.  He grows peevish and poor-spirited.  The
genius of reading and of gardening are antagonistic, like resinous
and vitreous electricity.  One is concentrative in sparks and shocks:
the other is diffuse strength; so that each disqualifies its workman
for the other's duties.
        An engraver whose hands must be of an exquisite delicacy of
stroke, should not lay stone walls.  Sir David Brewster gives exact
instructions for microscopic observation: -- "Lie down on your back,
and hold the single lens and object over your eye," &c. &c.  How much
more the seeker of abstract truth, who needs periods of isolation,
and rapt concentration, and almost a going out of the body to think!
