
        2. Spend after your genius, _and by system_.  Nature goes by
rule, not by sallies and saltations.  There must be system in the
economies.  Saving and unexpensiveness will not keep the most
pathetic family from ruin, nor will bigger incomes make free spending
safe.  The secret of success lies never in the amount of money, but
in the relation of income to outgo; as if, after expense has been
fixed at a certain point, then new and steady rills of income, though
never so small, being added, wealth begins.  But in ordinary, as
means increase, spending increases faster, so that, large incomes, in
England and elsewhere, are found not to help matters; -- the eating
quality of debt does not relax its voracity.  When the cholera is in
the potato, what is the use of planting larger crops?  In England,
the richest country in the universe, I was assured by shrewd
observers, that great lords and ladies had no more guineas to give
away than other people; that liberality with money is as rare, and as
immediately famous a virtue as it is here.  Want is a growing giant
whom the coat of Have was never large enough to cover.  I remember in
Warwickshire, to have been shown a fair manor, still in the same name
as in Shakspeare's time.  The rent-roll, I was told, is some fourteen
thousand pounds a year: but, when the second son of the late
proprietor was born, the father was perplexed how to provide for him.
The eldest son must inherit the manor; what to do with this
supernumerary?  He was advised to breed him for the Church, and to
settle him in the rectorship, which was in the gift of the family;
which was done.  It is a general rule in that country, that bigger
incomes do not help anybody.  It is commonly observed, that a sudden
wealth, like a prize drawn in a lottery, or a large bequest to a poor
family, does not permanently enrich.  They have served no
apprenticeship to wealth, and, with the rapid wealth, come rapid
claims: which they do not know how to deny, and the treasure is
quickly dissipated.
        A system must be in every economy, or the best single
expedients are of no avail.  A farm is a good thing, when it begins
and ends with itself, and does not need a salary, or a shop, to eke
it out.  Thus, the cattle are a main link in the chain-ring.  If the
non-conformist or aesthetic farmer leaves out the cattle, and does
not also leave out the want which the cattle must supply, he must
fill the gap by begging or stealing.  When men now alive were born,
the farm yielded everything that was consumed on it.  The farm
yielded no money, and the farmer got on without.  If he fell sick,
his neighbors came in to his aid: each gave a day's work; or a half
day; or lent his yoke of oxen, or his horse, and kept his work even:
hoed his potatoes, mowed his hay, reaped his rye; well knowing that
no man could afford to hire labor, without selling his land.  In
autumn, a farmer could sell an ox or a hog, and get a little money to
pay taxes withal.  Now, the farmer buys almost all he consumes, --
tin-ware, cloth, sugar, tea, coffee, fish, coal, railroad-tickets,
and newspapers.
        A master in each art is required, because the practice is never
with still or dead subjects, but they change in your hands.  You
think farm-buildings and broad acres a solid property: but its value
is flowing like water.  It requires as much watching as if you were
decanting wine from a cask.  The farmer knows what to do with it,
stops every leak, turns all the streamlets to one reservoir, and
decants wine: but a blunderhead comes out of Cornhill, tries his
hand, and it all leaks away.  So is it with granite streets, or
timber townships, as with fruit or flowers.  Nor is any investment so
permanent, that it can be allowed to remain without incessant
watching, as the history of each attempt to lock up an inheritance
through two generations for an unborn inheritor may show.
        When Mr. Cockayne takes a cottage in the country, and will keep
his cow, he thinks a cow is a creature that is fed on hay, and gives
a pail of milk twice a day.  But the cow that he buys gives milk for
three months; then her bag dries up.  What to do with a dry cow? who
will buy her?  Perhaps he bought also a yoke of oxen to do his work;
but they get blown and lame.  What to do with blown and lame oxen?
The farmer fats his, after the spring-work is done, and kills them in
the fall.  But how can Cockayne, who has no pastures, and leaves his
cottage daily in the cars, at business hours, be pothered with
fatting and killing oxen?  He plants trees; but there must be crops,
to keep the trees in ploughed land.  What shall be the crops?  He
will have nothing to do with trees, but will have grass.  After a
year or two, the grass must be turned up and ploughed: now what
crops?  Credulous Cockayne!
        3. Help comes in the custom of the country, and the rule of
_Impera parendo_.  The rule is not to dictate, nor to insist on
carrying out each of your schemes by ignorant wilfulness, but to
learn practically the secret spoken from all nature, that things
themselves refuse to be mismanaged, and will show to the watchful
their own law.  Nobody need stir hand or foot.  The custom of the
country will do it all.  I know not how to build or to plant; neither
how to buy wood, nor what to do with the house-lot, the field, or the
wood-lot, when bought.  Never fear: it is all settled how it shall
be, long beforehand, in the custom of the country, whether to sand,
or whether to clay it, when to plough, and how to dress, whether to
grass, or to corn; and you cannot help or hinder it.  Nature has her
own best mode of doing each thing, and she has somewhere told it
plainly, if we will keep our eyes and ears open.  If not, she will
not be slow in undeceiving us, when we prefer our own way to hers.
How often we must remember the art of the surgeon, which, in
replacing the broken bone, contents itself with releasing the parts
from false position; they fly into place by the action of the
muscles.  On this art of nature all our arts rely.
        Of the two eminent engineers in the recent construction of
railways in England, Mr. Brunel went straight from terminus to
terminus, through mountains, over streams, crossing highways, cutting
ducal estates in two, and shooting through this man's cellar, and
that man's attic window, and so arriving at his end, at great
pleasure to geometers, but with cost to his company.  Mr. Stephenson,
on the contrary, believing that the river knows the way, followed his
valley, as implicitly as our Western Railroad follows the Westfield
River, and turned out to be the safest and cheapest engineer.  We say
the cows laid out Boston.  Well, there are worse surveyors.  Every
pedestrian in our pastures has frequent occasion to thank the cows
for cutting the best path through the thicket, and over the hills:
and travellers and Indians know the value of a buffalo-trail, which
is sure to be the easiest possible pass through the ridge.
        When a citizen, fresh from Dock-square, or Milk-street, comes
out and buys land in the country, his first thought is to a fine
outlook from his windows: his library must command a western view: a
sunset every day, bathing the shoulder of Blue Hills, Wachusett, and
the peaks of Monadnoc and Uncanoonuc.  What, thirty acres, and all
this magnificence for fifteen hundred dollars!  It would be cheap at
fifty thousand.  He proceeds at once, his eyes dim with tears of joy,
to fix the spot for his corner-stone.  But the man who is to level
the ground, thinks it will take many hundred loads of gravel to fill
the hollow to the road.  The stone-mason who should build the well
thinks he shall have to dig forty feet: the baker doubts he shall
never like to drive up to the door: the practical neighbor cavils at
the position of the barn; and the citizen comes to know that his
predecessor the farmer built the house in the right spot for the sun
and wind, the spring, and water-drainage, and the convenience to the
pasture, the garden, the field, and the road.  So Dock-square yields
the point, and things have their own way.  Use has made the farmer
wise, and the foolish citizen learns to take his counsel.  From step
to step he comes at last to surrender at discretion.  The farmer
affects to take his orders; but the citizen says, You may ask me as
often as you will, and in what ingenious forms, for an opinion
concerning the mode of building my wall, or sinking my well, or
laying out my acre, but the ball will rebound to you.  These are
matters on which I neither know, nor need to know anything.  These
are questions which you and not I shall answer.
        Not less, within doors, a system settles itself paramount and
tyrannical over master and mistress, servant and child, cousin and
acquaintance.  'Tis in vain that genius or virtue or energy of
character strive and cry against it.  This is fate.  And 'tis very
well that the poor husband reads in a book of a new way of living,
and resolves to adopt it at home: let him go home and try it, if he
dare.
