
        4. Another point of economy is to look for seed of the same
kind as you sow: and not to hope to buy one kind with another kind.
Friendship buys friendship; justice, justice; military merit,
military success.  Good husbandry finds wife, children, and
household.  The good merchant large gains, ships, stocks, and money.
The good poet fame, and literary credit; but not either, the other.
Yet there is commonly a confusion of expectations on these points.
Hotspur lives for the moment; praises himself for it; and despises
Furlong, that he does not.  Hotspur, of course, is poor; and Furlong
a good provider.  The odd circumstance is, that Hotspur thinks it a
superiority in himself, this improvidence, which ought to be rewarded
with Furlong's lands.
        I have not at all completed my design.  But we must not leave
the topic, without casting one glance into the interior recesses.  It
is a doctrine of philosophy, that man is a being of degrees; that
there is nothing in the world, which is not repeated in his body; his
body being a sort of miniature or summary of the world: then that
there is nothing in his body, which is not repeated as in a celestial
sphere in his mind: then, there is nothing in his brain, which is not
repeated in a higher sphere, in his moral system.
        5. Now these things are so in Nature.  All things ascend, and
the royal rule of economy is, that it should ascend also, or,
whatever we do must always have a higher aim.  Thus it is a maxim,
that money is another kind of blood.  _Pecunia alter sanguis_: or,
the estate of a man is only a larger kind of body, and admits of
regimen analogous to his bodily circulations.  So there is no maxim
of the merchant, _e. g._, "Best use of money is to pay debts;" "Every
business by itself;" "Best time is present time;" "The right
investment is in tools of your trade;" or the like, which does not
admit of an extended sense.  The counting-room maxims liberally
expounded are laws of the Universe.  The merchant's economy is a
coarse symbol of the soul's economy.  It is, to spend for power, and
not for pleasure.  It is to invest income; that is to say, to take up
particulars into generals; days into integral eras, -- literary,
emotive, practical, of its life, and still to ascend in its
investment.  The merchant has but one rule, _absorb and invest_: he
is to be capitalist: the scraps and filings must be gathered back
into the crucible; the gas and smoke must be burned, and earnings
must not go to increase expense, but to capital again.  Well, the man
must be capitalist.  Will he spend his income, or will he invest?
His body and every organ is under the same law.  His body is a jar,
in which the liquor of life is stored.  Will he spend for pleasure?
The way to ruin is short and facile.  Will he not spend, but hoard
for power?  It passes through the sacred fermentations, by that law
of Nature whereby everything climbs to higher platforms, and bodily
vigor becomes mental and moral vigor.  The bread he eats is first
strength and animal spirits: it becomes, in higher laboratories,
imagery and thought; and in still higher results, courage and
endurance.  This is the right compound interest; this is capital
doubled, quadrupled, centupled; man raised to his highest power.
        The true thrift is always to spend on the higher plane; to
invest and invest, with keener avarice, that he may spend in
spiritual creation, and not in augmenting animal existence.  Nor is
the man enriched, in repeating the old experiments of animal
sensation, nor unless through new powers and ascending pleasures, he
knows himself by the actual experience of higher good, to be already
on the way to the highest.
 
 
        IV
 
        CULTURE
 
        Can rules or tutors educate
        The semigod whom we await?
        He must be musical,
        Tremulous, impressional,
        Alive to gentle influence
        Of landscape and of sky,
        And tender to the spirit-touch
        Of man's or maiden's eye:
        But, to his native centre fast,
        Shall into Future fuse the Past,
        And the world's flowing fates in
        his own mould recast.
 
 
        _Culture_
        The word of ambition at the present day is Culture.  Whilst all
the world is in pursuit of power, and of wealth as a means of power,
culture corrects the theory of success.  A man is the prisoner of his
power.  A topical memory makes him an almanac; a talent for debate, a
disputant; skill to get money makes him a miser, that is, a beggar.
Culture reduces these inflammations by invoking the aid of other
powers against the dominant talent, and by appealing to the rank of
powers.  It watches success.  For performance, Nature has no mercy,
and sacrifices the performer to get it done; makes a dropsy or a
tympany of him.  If she wants a thumb, she makes one at the cost of
arms and legs, and any excess of power in one part is usually paid
for at once by some defect in a contiguous part.
        Our efficiency depends so much on our concentration, that
Nature usually in the instances where a marked man is sent into the
world, overloads him with bias, sacrificing his symmetry to his
working power.  It is said, no man can write but one book; and if a
man have a defect, it is apt to leave its impression on all his
performances.  If she creates a policeman like Fouche, he is made up
of suspicions and of plots to circumvent them.  "The air," said
Fouche, "is full of poniards." The physician Sanctorius spent his
life in a pair of scales, weighing his food.  Lord Coke valued
Chaucer highly, because the Canon Yeman's Tale illustrates the
statute _Hen. V. Chap. 4,_ against alchemy.  I saw a man who believed
the principal mischiefs in the English state were derived from the
devotion to musical concerts.  A freemason, not long since, set out
to explain to this country, that the principal cause of the success
of General Washington, was, the aid he derived from the freemasons.
        But worse than the harping on one string, Nature has secured
individualism, by giving the private person a high conceit of his
weight in the system.  The pest of society is egotists.  There are
dull and bright, sacred and profane, coarse and fine egotists.  'Tis
a disease that, like influenza, falls on all constitutions.  In the
distemper known to physicians as _chorea_, the patient sometimes
turns round, and continues to spin slowly on one spot.  Is egotism a
metaphysical varioloid of this malady?  The man runs round a ring
formed by his own talent, falls into an admiration of it, and loses
relation to the world.  It is a tendency in all minds.  One of its
annoying forms, is a craving for sympathy.  The sufferers parade
their miseries, tear the lint from their bruises, reveal their
indictable crimes, that you may pity them.  They like sickness,
because physical pain will extort some show of interest from the
bystanders, as we have seen children, who, finding themselves of no
account when grown people come in, will cough till they choke, to
draw attention.
