
        This distemper is the scourge of talent, -- of artists,
inventors, and philosophers.  Eminent spiritualists shall have an
incapacity of putting their act or word aloof from them, and seeing
it bravely for the nothing it is.  Beware of the man who says, "I am
on the eve of a revelation." It is speedily punished, inasmuch as
this habit invites men to humor it, and by treating the patient
tenderly, to shut him up in a narrower selfism, and exclude him from
the great world of God's cheerful fallible men and women.  Let us
rather be insulted, whilst we are insultable.  Religious literature
has eminent examples, and if we run over our private list of poets,
critics, philanthropists, and philosophers, we shall find them
infected with this dropsy and elephantiasis, which we ought to have
tapped.
        This goitre of egotism is so frequent among notable persons,
that we must infer some strong necessity in nature which it
subserves; such as we see in the sexual attraction.  The preservation
of the species was a point of such necessity, that Nature has secured
it at all hazards by immensely overloading the passion, at the risk
of perpetual crime and disorder.  So egotism has its root in the
cardinal necessity by which each individual persists to be what he
is.
        This individuality is not only not inconsistent with culture,
but is the basis of it.  Every valuable nature is there in its own
right, and the student we speak to must have a motherwit invincible
by his culture, which uses all books, arts, facilities, and
elegancies of intercourse, but is never subdued and lost in them.  He
only is a well-made man who has a good determination.  And the end of
culture is not to destroy this, God forbid! but to train away all
impediment and mixture, and leave nothing but pure power.  Our
student must have a style and determination, and be a master in his
own specialty.  But, having this, he must put it behind him.  He must
have a catholicity, a power to see with a free and disengaged look
every object.  Yet is this private interest and self so overcharged,
that, if a man seeks a companion who can look at objects for their
own sake, and without affection or self-reference, he will find the
fewest who will give him that satisfaction; whilst most men are
afflicted with a coldness, an incuriosity, as soon as any object does
not connect with their self-love.  Though they talk of the object
before them, they are thinking of themselves, and their vanity is
laying little traps for your admiration.
        But after a man has discovered that there are limits to the
interest which his private history has for mankind, he still
converses with his family, or a few companions, -- perhaps with half
a dozen personalities that are famous in his neighborhood.  In
Boston, the question of life is the names of some eight or ten men.
Have you seen Mr. Allston, Doctor Channing, Mr. Adams, Mr. Webster,
Mr. Greenough?  Have you heard Everett, Garrison, Father Taylor,
Theodore Parker?  Have you talked with Messieurs Turbinewheel,
Summitlevel, and Lacofrupees?  Then you may as well die.  In New
York, the question is of some other eight, or ten, or twenty.  Have
you seen a few lawyers, merchants, and brokers, -- two or three
scholars, two or three capitalists, two or three editors of
newspapers?  New York is a sucked orange.  All conversation is at an
end, when we have discharged ourselves of a dozen personalities,
domestic or imported, which make up our American existence.  Nor do
we expect anybody to be other than a faint copy of these heroes.
        Life is very narrow.  Bring any club or company of intelligent
men together again after ten years, and if the presence of some
penetrating and calming genius could dispose them to frankness, what
a confession of insanities would come up!  The "causes" to which we
have sacrificed, Tariff or Democracy, Whigism or Abolition,
Temperance or Socialism, would show like roots of bitterness and
dragons of wrath: and our talents are as mischievous as if each had
been seized upon by some bird of prey, which had whisked him away
from fortune, from truth, from the dear society of the poets, some
zeal, some bias, and only when he was now gray and nerveless, was it
relaxing its claws, and he awaking to sober perceptions.
        Culture is the suggestion from certain best thoughts, that a
man has a range of affinities, through which he can modulate the
violence of any master-tones that have a droning preponderance in his
scale, and succor him against himself.  Culture redresses his
balance, puts him among his equals and superiors, revives the
delicious sense of sympathy, and warns him of the dangers of solitude
and repulsion.
        'Tis not a compliment but a disparagement to consult a man only
on horses, or on steam, or on theatres, or on eating, or on books,
and, whenever he appears, considerately to turn the conversation to
the bantling he is known to fondle.  In the Norse heaven of our
forefathers, Thor's house had five hundred and forty floors; and
man's house has five hundred and forty floors.  His excellence is
facility of adaptation and of transition through many related points,
to wide contrasts and extremes.  Culture kills his exaggeration, his
conceit of his village or his city.  We must leave our pets at home,
when we go into the street, and meet men on broad grounds of good
meaning and good sense.  No performance is worth loss of geniality.
'Tis a cruel price we pay for certain fancy goods called fine arts
and philosophy.  In the Norse legend, Allfadir did not get a drink of
Mimir's spring, (the fountain of wisdom,) until he left his eye in
pledge.  And here is a pedant that cannot unfold his wrinkles, nor
conceal his wrath at interruption by the best, if their conversation
do not fit his impertinency, -- here is he to afflict us with his
personalities.  'Tis incident to scholars, that each of them fancies
he is pointedly odious in his community.  Draw him out of this limbo
of irritability.  Cleanse with healthy blood his parchment skin.  You
restore to him his eyes which he left in pledge at Mimir's spring.
If you are the victim of your doing, who cares what you do?  We can
spare your opera, your gazetteer, your chemic analysis, your history,
your syllogisms.  Your man of genius pays dear for his distinction.
His head runs up into a spire, and instead of a healthy man, merry
and wise, he is some mad dominie.  Nature is reckless of the
individual.  When she has points to carry, she carries them.  To wade
in marshes and sea-margins is the destiny of certain birds, and they
are so accurately made for this, that they are imprisoned in those
places.  Each animal out of its _habitat_ would starve.  To the
physician, each man, each woman, is an amplification of one organ.  A
soldier, a locksmith, a bank-clerk, and a dancer could not exchange
functions.  And thus we are victims of adaptation.
        The antidotes against this organic egotism, are, the range and
variety of attractions, as gained by acquaintance with the world,
with men of merit, with classes of society, with travel, with eminent
persons, and with the high resources of philosophy, art, and
religion: books, travel, society, solitude.
