
        'Tis frivolous to fix pedantically the date of particular
inventions.  They have all been invented over and over fifty times.
Man is the arch machine, of which all these shifts drawn from himself
are toy models.  He helps himself on each emergency by copying or
duplicating his own structure, just so far as the need is.  'Tis hard
to find the right Homer Zoroaster, or Menu; harder still to find the
Tubal Cain, or Vulcan, or Cadmus, or Copernicus, or Fust, or Fulton,
the indisputable inventor.  There are scores and centuries of them.
"The air is full of men." This kind of talent so abounds, this
constructive tool-making efficiency, as if it adhered to the chemic
atoms, as if the air he breathes were made of Vaucansons, Franklins,
and Watts.
        Doubtless, in every million there will be an astronomer, a
mathematician, a comic poet, a mystic.  No one can read the history
of astronomy, without perceiving that Copernicus, Newton, Laplace,
are not new men, or a new kind of men, but that Thales, Anaximenes,
Hipparchus, Empedocles, Aristarchus, Pythagoras, ;oEnopides, had
anticipated them; each had the same tense geometrical brain, apt for
the same vigorous computation and logic, a mind parallel to the
movement of the world.  The Roman mile probably rested on a measure
of a degree of the meridian.  Mahometan and Chinese know what we know
of leap-year, of the Gregorian calendar, and of the precession of the
equinoxes.  As, in every barrel of cowries, brought to New Bedford,
there shall be one _orangia_, so there will, in a dozen millions of
Malays and Mahometans, be one or two astronomical skulls.  In a large
city, the most casual things, and things whose beauty lies in their
casualty, are produced as punctually and to order as the baker's
muffin for breakfast.  Punch makes exactly one capital joke a week;
and the journals contrive to furnish one good piece of news every
day.
        And not less work the laws of repression, the penalties of
violated functions.  Famine, typhus, frost, war, suicide, and effete
races, must be reckoned calculable parts of the system of the world.
        These are pebbles from the mountain, hints of the terms by
which our life is walled up, and which show a kind of mechanical
exactness, as of a loom or mill, in what we call casual or fortuitous
events.
        The force with which we resist these torrents of tendency looks
so ridiculously inadequate, that it amounts to little more than a
criticism or a protest made by a minority of one, under compulsion of
millions.  I seemed, in the height of a tempest, to see men overboard
struggling in the waves, and driven about here and there.  They
glanced intelligently at each other, but 'twas little they could do
for one another; 'twas much if each could keep afloat alone.  Well,
they had a right to their eye-beams, and all the rest was Fate.
        We cannot trifle with this reality, this cropping-out in our
planted gardens of the core of the world.  No picture of life can
have any veracity that does not admit the odious facts.  A man's
power is hooped in by a necessity, which, by many experiments, he
touches on every side, until he learns its arc.
        The element running through entire nature, which we popularly
call Fate, is known to us as limitation.  Whatever limits us, we call
Fate.  If we are brute and barbarous, the fate takes a brute and
dreadful shape.  As we refine, our checks become finer.  If we rise
to spiritual culture, the antagonism takes a spiritual form.  In the
Hindoo fables, Vishnu follows Maya through all her ascending changes,
from insect and crawfish up to elephant; whatever form she took, he
took the male form of that kind, until she became at last woman and
goddess, and he a man and a god.  The limitations refine as the soul
purifies, but the ring of necessity is always perched at the top.
        When the gods in the Norse heaven were unable to bind the
Fenris Wolf with steel or with weight of mountains, -- the one he
snapped and the other he spurned with his heel,--they put round his
foot a limp band softer than silk or cobweb, and this held him: the
more he spurned it, the stiffer it drew.  So soft and so stanch is
the ring of Fate.  Neither brandy, nor nectar, nor sulphuric ether,
nor hell-fire, nor ichor, nor poetry, nor genius, can get rid of this
limp band.  For if we give it the high sense in which the poets use
it, even thought itself is not above Fate: that too must act
according to eternal laws, and all that is wilful and fantastic in it
is in opposition to its fundamental essence.
