
        The hardiest skeptic who has seen a horse broken, a pointer
trained, or, who has visited a menagerie, or the exhibition of the
Industrious Fleas, will not deny the validity of education.  "A boy,"
says Plato, "is the most vicious of all wild beasts;" and, in the
same spirit, the old English poet Gascoigne says, "a boy is better
unborn than untaught." The city breeds one kind of speech and
manners; the back-country a different style; the sea, another; the
army, a fourth.  We know that an army which can be confided in, may
be formed by discipline; that, by systematic discipline all men may
be made heroes: Marshal Lannes said to a French officer, "Know,
Colonel, that none but a poltroon will boast that he never was
afraid." A great part of courage is the courage of having done the
thing before.  And, in all human action, those faculties will be
strong which are used.  Robert Owen said, "Give me a tiger, and I
will educate him." 'Tis inhuman to want faith in the power of
education, since to meliorate, is the law of nature; and men are
valued precisely as they exert onward or melio-rating force.  On the
other hand, poltroonery is the acknowledging an inferiority to be
incurable.
        Incapacity of melioration is the only mortal distemper.  There
are people who can never understand a trope, or any second or
expanded sense given to your words, or any humor; but remain
literalists, after hearing the music, and poetry, and rhetoric, and
wit, of seventy or eighty years.  They are past the help of surgeon
or clergy.  But even these can understand pitchforks and the cry of
fire! and I have noticed in some of this class a marked dislike of
earthquakes.
        Let us make our education brave and preventive.  Politics is an
after-work, a poor patching.  We are always a little late.  The evil
is done, the law is passed, and we begin the up-hill agitation for
repeal of that of which we ought to have prevented the enacting.  We
shall one day learn to supersede politics by education.  What we call
our root-and-branch reforms of slavery, war, gambling, intemperance,
is only medicating the symptoms.  We must begin higher up, namely, in
Education.
        Our arts and tools give to him who can handle them much the
same advantage over the novice, as if you extended his life, ten,
fifty, or a hundred years.  And I think it the part of good sense to
provide every fine soul with such culture, that it shall not, at
thirty or forty years, have to say, `This which I might do is made
hopeless through my want of weapons.'
        But it is conceded that much of our training fails of effect;
that all success is hazardous and rare; that a large part of our cost
and pains is thrown away.  Nature takes the matter into her own
hands, and, though we must not omit any jot of our system, we can
seldom be sure that it has availed much, or, that as much good would
not have accrued from a different system.
        Books, as containing the finest records of human wit, must
always enter into our notion of culture.  The best heads that ever
existed, Pericles, Plato, Julius Caesar, Shakspeare, Goethe, Milton,
were well-read, universally educated men, and quite too wise to
undervalue letters.  Their opinion has weight, because they had means
of knowing the opposite opinion.  We look that a great man should be
a good reader, or, in proportion to the spontaneous power should be
the assimilating power.  Good criticism is very rare, and always
precious.  I am always happy to meet persons who perceive the
transcendent superiority of Shakspeare over all other writers.  I
like people who like Plato.  Because this love does not consist with
self-conceit.
        But books are good only as far as a boy is ready for them.  He
sometimes gets ready very slowly.  You send your child to the
schoolmaster, but 'tis the schoolboys who educate him.  You send him
to the Latin class, but much of his tuition comes, on his way to
school, from the shop-windows.  You like the strict rules and the
long terms; and he finds his best leading in a by-way of his own, and
refuses any companions but of his choosing.  He hates the grammar and
_Gradus_, and loves guns, fishing-rods, horses, and boats.  Well, the
boy is right; and you are not fit to direct his bringing up, if your
theory leaves out his gymnastic training.  Archery, cricket, gun and
fishing-rod, horse and boat, are all educators, liberalizers; and so
are dancing, dress, and the street-talk; and,-- provided only the boy
has resources, and is of a noble and ingenuous strain, -- these will
not serve him less than the books.  He learns chess, whist, dancing,
and theatricals.  The father observes that another boy has learned
algebra and geometry in the same time.  But the first boy has
acquired much more than these poor games along with them.  He is
infatuated for weeks with whist and chess; but presently will find
out, as you did, that when he rises from the game too long played, he
is vacant and forlorn, and despises himself.  Thenceforward it takes
place with other things, and has its due weight in his experience.
These minor skills and accomplishments, for example, dancing, are
tickets of admission to the dress-circle of mankind, and the being
master of them enables the youth to judge intelligently of much, on
which, otherwise, he would give a pedantic squint.  Landor said, "I
have suffered more from my bad dancing, than from all the misfortunes
and miseries of my life put together." Provided always the boy is
teachable, (for we are not proposing to make a statue out of punk,)
football, cricket, archery, swimming, skating, climbing, fencing,
riding, are lessons in the art of power, which it is his main
business to learn; -- riding, specially, of which Lord Herbert of
Cherbury said, "a good rider on a good horse is as much above himself
and others as the world can make him." Besides, the gun, fishing-rod,
boat, and horse, constitute, among all who use them, secret
freemasonries.  They are as if they belonged to one club.
        There is also a negative value in these arts.  Their chief use
to the youth, is, not amusement, but to be known for what they are,
and not to remain to him occasions of heart-burn.  We are full of
superstitions.  Each class fixes its eyes on the advantages it has
not; the refined, on rude strength; the democrat, on birth and
breeding.  One of the benefits of a college education is, to show the
boy its little avail.  I knew a leading man in a leading city, who,
having set his heart on an education at the university, and missed
it, could never quite feel himself the equal of his own brothers who
had gone thither.  His easy superiority to multitudes of professional
men could never quite countervail to him this imaginary defect.
Balls, riding, wine-parties, and billiards, pass to a poor boy for
something fine and romantic, which they are not; and a free admission
to them on an equal footing, if it were possible, only once or twice,
would be worth ten times its cost, by undeceiving him.
