
        I am not much an advocate for travelling, and I observe that
men run away to other countries, because they are not good in their
own, and run back to their own, because they pass for nothing in the
new places.  For the most part, only the light characters travel.
Who are you that have no task to keep you at home?  I have been
quoted as saying captious things about travel; but I mean to do
justice.  I think, there is a restlessness in our people, which
argues want of character.  All educated Americans, first or last, go
to Europe; -- perhaps, because it is their mental home, as the
invalid habits of this country might suggest.  An eminent teacher of
girls said, "the idea of a girl's education, is, whatever qualifies
them for going to Europe." Can we never extract this tape-worm of
Europe from the brain of our countrymen?  One sees very well what
their fate must be.  He that does not fill a place at home, cannot
abroad.  He only goes there to hide his insignificance in a larger
crowd.  You do not think you will find anything there which you have
not seen at home?  The stuff of all countries is just the same.  Do
you suppose, there is any country where they do not scald milkpans,
and swaddle the infants, and burn the brushwood, and broil the fish?
What is true anywhere is true everywhere.  And let him go where he
will, he can only find so much beauty or worth as he carries.
        Of course, for some men, travel may be useful.  Naturalists,
discoverers, and sailors are born.  Some men are made for couriers,
exchangers, envoys, missionaries, bearers of despatches, as others
are for farmers and working-men.  And if the man is of a light and
social turn, and Nature has aimed to make a legged and winged
creature, framed for locomotion, we must follow her hint, and furnish
him with that breeding which gives currency, as sedulously as with
that which gives worth.  But let us not be pedantic, but allow to
travel its full effect.  The boy grown up on the farm, which he has
never left, is said in the country to have had _no chance_, and boys
and men of that condition look upon work on a railroad, or drudgery
in a city, as opportunity.  Poor country boys of Vermont and
Connecticut formerly owed what knowledge they had, to their peddling
trips to the Southern States.  California and the Pacific Coast is
now the university of this class, as Virginia was in old times.  `To
have _some chance_' is their word.  And the phrase `to know the
world,' or to travel, is synonymous with all men's ideas of advantage
and superiority.  No doubt, to a man of sense, travel offers
advantages.  As many languages as he has, as many friends, as many
arts and trades, so many times is he a man.  A foreign country is a
point of comparison, wherefrom to judge his own.  One use of travel,
is, to recommend the books and works of home; [we go to Europe to be
Americanized;] and another, to find men.  For, as Nature has put
fruits apart in latitudes, a new fruit in every degree, so knowledge
and fine moral quality she lodges in distant men.  And thus, of the
six or seven teachers whom each man wants among his contemporaries,
it often happens, that one or two of them live on the other side of
the world.
        Moreover, there is in every constitution a certain solstice,
when the stars stand still in our inward firmament, and when there is
required some foreign force, some diversion or alterative to prevent
stagnation.  And, as a medical remedy, travel seems one of the best.
Just as a man witnessing the admirable effect of ether to lull pain,
and meditating on the contingencies of wounds, cancers, lockjaws,
rejoices in Dr. Jackson's benign discovery, so a man who looks at
Paris, at Naples, or at London, says, `If I should be driven from my
own home, here, at least, my thoughts can be consoled by the most
prodigal amusement and occupation which the human race in ages could
contrive and accumulate.'
        Akin to the benefit of foreign travel, the aesthetic value of
railroads is to unite the advantages of town and country life,
neither of which we can spare.  A man should live in or near a large
town, because, let his own genius be what it may, it will repel quite
as much of agreeable and valuable talent as it draws, and, in a city,
the total attraction of all the citizens is sure to conquer, first or
last, every repulsion, and drag the most improbable hermit within its
walls some day in the year.  In town, he can find the
swimming-school, the gymnasium, the dancing-master, the
shooting-gallery, opera, theatre, and panorama; the chemist's shop,
the museum of natural history; the gallery of fine arts; the national
orators, in their turn; foreign travellers, the libraries, and his
club.  In the country, he can find solitude and reading, manly labor,
cheap living, and his old shoes; moors for game, hills for geology,
and groves for devotion.  Aubrey writes, "I have heard Thomas Hobbes
say, that, in the Earl of Devon's house, in Derbyshire, there was a
good library and books enough for him, and his lordship stored the
library with what books he thought fit to be bought.  But the want of
good conversation was a very great inconvenience, and, though he
conceived he could order his thinking as well as another, yet he
found a great defect.  In the country, in long time, for want of good
conversation, one's understanding and invention contract a moss on
them, like an old paling in an orchard."
        Cities give us collision.  'Tis said, London and New York take
the nonsense out of a man.  A great part of our education is
sympathetic and social.  Boys and girls who have been brought up with
well-informed and superior people, show in their manners an
inestimable grace.  Fuller says, that "William, Earl of Nassau, won a
subject from the King of Spain, every time he put off his hat." You
cannot have one well-bred man, without a whole society of such.  They
keep each other up to any high point.  Especially women; -- it
requires a great many cultivated women, -- saloons of bright,
elegant, reading women, accustomed to ease and refinement, to
spectacles, pictures, sculpture, poetry, and to elegant society, in
order that you should have one Madame de Stael.  The head of a
commercial house, or a leading lawyer or politician is brought into
daily contact with troops of men from all parts of the country, and
those too the driving-wheels, the business men of each section, and
one can hardly suggest for an apprehensive man a more searching
culture.  Besides, we must remember the high social possibilities of
a million of men.  The best bribe which London offers to-day to the
imagination, is, that, in such a vast variety of people and
conditions, one can believe there is room for persons of romantic
character to exist, and that the poet, the mystic, and the hero may
hope to confront their counterparts.
 
      I wish cities could teach their best lesson, -- of quiet
manners.  It is the foible especially of American youth, --
pretension.  The mark of the man of the world is absence of
pretension.  He does not make a speech; he takes a low business-tone,
avoids all brag, is nobody, dresses plainly, promises not at all,
performs much, speaks in monosyllables, hugs his fact.  He calls his
employment by its lowest name, and so takes from evil tongues their
sharpest weapon.  His conversation clings to the weather and the
news, yet he allows him-self to be surprised into thought, and the
unlocking of his learning and philosophy.  How the imagination is
piqued by anecdotes of some great man passing incognito, as a king in
gray clothes, -- of Napoleon affecting a plain suit at his glittering
levee; of Burns, or Scott, or Beethoven, or Wellington, or Goethe, or
any container of transcendent power, passing for nobody; of
Epaminondas, "who never says anything, but will listen eternally;" of
Goethe, who preferred trifling subjects and common expressions in
intercourse with strangers, worse rather than better clothes, and to
appear a little more capricious than he was.  There are advantages in
the old hat and box-coat.  I have heard, that, throughout this
country, a certain respect is paid to good broadcloth; but dress
makes a little restraint: men will not commit themselves.  But the
box-coat is like wine; it unlocks the tongue, and men say what they
think.  An old poet says,
        "Go far and go sparing,
        For you'll find it certain,
        The poorer and the baser you appear,
        The more you'll look through still." (*)
        (*) Beaumont and Fletcher: _The Tamer Tamed._
        Not much otherwise Milnes writes, in the "Lay of the Humble,"
 
                "To me men are for what they are,
                They wear no masks with me."
