
        'Tis odd that our people should have -- not water on the brain,
-- but a little gas there.  A shrewd foreigner said of the Americans,
that, "whatever they say has a little the air of a speech." Yet one
of the traits down in the books as distinguishing the Anglo-Saxon,
is, a trick of self-disparagement.  To be sure, in old, dense
countries, among a million of good coats, a fine coat comes to be no
distinction, and you find humorists.  In an English party, a man with
no marked manners or features, with a face like red dough,
unexpectedly discloses wit, learning, a wide range of topics, and
personal familiarity with good men in all parts of the world, until
you think you have fallen upon some illustrious personage.  Can it be
that the American forest has refreshed some weeds of old Pietish
barbarism just ready to die out, -- the love of the scarlet feather,
of beads, and tinsel?  The Italians are fond of red clothes, peacock
plumes, and embroidery; and I remember one rainy morning in the city
of Palermo, the street was in a blaze with scarlet umbrellas.  The
English have a plain taste.  The equipages of the grandees are plain.
A gorgeous livery indicates new and awkward city wealth.  Mr. Pitt,
like Mr. Pym, thought the title of _Mister_ good against any king in
Europe.  They have piqued themselves on governing the whole world in
the poor, plain, dark Committee-room which the House of Commons sat
in, before the fire.
        Whilst we want cities as the centres where the best things are
found, cities degrade us by magnifying trifles.  The countryman finds
the town a chop-house, a barber's shop.  He has lost the lines of
grandeur of the horizon, hills and plains, and with them, sobriety
and elevation.  He has come among a supple, glib-tongued tribe, who
live for show, servile to public opinion.  Life is dragged down to a
fracas of pitiful cares and disasters.  You say the gods ought to
respect a life whose objects are their own; but in cities they have
betrayed you to a cloud of insignificant annoyances:
 
        "Mirmidons, race feconde,
        Mirmidons,
        Enfin nous commandons;
        Jupiter livre le monde
        Aux mirmidons, aux mirmidons." (*)
 
        'Tis heavy odds
        Against the gods,
        When they will match with myrmidons.
        We spawning, spawning myrmidons,
        Our turn to-day! we take command,
        Jove gives the globe into the hand
        Of myrmidons, of myrmidons.
        (*) Beranger.
        What is odious but noise, and people who scream and bewail?
people whose vane points always east, who live to dine, who send for
the doctor, who coddle themselves, who toast their feet on the
register, who intrigue to secure a padded chair, and a corner out of
the draught.  Suffer them once to begin the enumeration of their
infirmities, and the sun will go down on the unfinished tale.  Let
these triflers put us out of conceit with petty comforts.  To a man
at work, the frost is but a color: the rain, the wind, he forgot them
when he came in.  Let us learn to live coarsely, dress plainly, and
lie hard.  The least habit of dominion over the palate has certain
good effects not easily estimated.  Neither will we be driven into a
quiddling abstemiousness.  'Tis a superstition to insist on a special
diet.  All is made at last of the same chemical atoms.
        A man in pursuit of greatness feels no little wants.  How can
you mind diet, bed, dress, or salutes or compliments, or the figure
you make in company, or wealth, or even the bringing things to pass,
when you think how paltry are the machinery and the workers?
Wordsworth was praised to me, in Westmoreland, for having afforded to
his country neighbors an example of a modest household where comfort
and culture were secured, without display.  And a tender boy who
wears his rusty cap and outgrown coat, that he may secure the coveted
place in college, and the right in the library, is educated to some
purpose.  There is a great deal of self-denial and manliness in poor
and middle-class houses, in town and country, that has not got into
literature, and never will, but that keeps the earth sweet; that
saves on superfluities, and spends on essentials; that goes rusty,
and educates the boy; that sells the horse, but builds the school;
works early and late, takes two looms in the factory, three looms,
six looms, but pays off the mortgage on the paternal farm, and then
goes back cheerfully to work again.
        We can ill spare the commanding social benefits of cities; they
must be used; yet cautiously, and haughtily, -- and will yield their
best values to him who best can do without them.  Keep the town for
occasions, but the habits should be formed to retirement.  Solitude,
the safeguard of mediocrity, is to genius the stern friend, the cold,
obscure shelter where moult the wings which will bear it farther than
suns and stars.  He who should inspire and lead his race must be
defended from travelling with the souls of other men, from living,
breathing, reading, and writing in the daily, time-worn yoke of their
opinions.  "In the morning, -- solitude;" said Pythagoras; that
Nature may speak to the imagination, as she does never in company,
and that her favorite may make acquaintance with those divine
strengths which disclose themselves to serious and abstracted
thought.  'Tis very certain that Plato, Plotinus, Archimedes, Hermes,
Newton, Milton, Wordsworth, did not live in a crowd, but descended
into it from time to time as benefactors: and the wise instructor
will press this point of securing to the young soul in the
disposition of time and the arrangements of living, periods and
habits of solitude.  The high advantage of university-life is often
the mere mechanical one, I may call it, of a separate chamber and
fire, -- which parents will allow the boy without hesitation at
Cambridge, but do not think needful at home.  We say solitude, to
mark the character of the tone of thought; but if it can be shared
between two or more than two, it is happier, and not less noble.  "We
four," wrote Neander to his sacred friends, "will enjoy at Halle the
inward blessedness of a _civitas Dei_, whose foundations are forever
friendship.  The more I know you, the more I dissatisfy and must
dissatisfy all my wonted companions.  Their very presence stupefies
me.  The common understanding withdraws itself from the one centre of
all existence."
        Solitude takes off the pressure of present importunities that
more catholic and humane relations may appear.  The saint and poet
seek privacy to ends the most public and universal: and it is the
secret of culture, to interest the man more in his public, than in
his private quality.  Here is a new poem, which elicits a good many
comments in the journals, and in conversation.  From these it is
easy, at last, to eliminate the verdict which readers passed upon it;
and that is, in the main, unfavorable.  The poet, as a craftsman, is
only interested in the praise accorded to him, and not in the
censure, though it be just.  And the poor little poet hearkens only
to that, and rejects the censure, as proving incapacity in the
critic.  But the poet _cultivated_ becomes a stockholder in both
companies, -- say Mr. Curfew, -- in the Curfew stock, and in the
_humanity_ stock; and, in the last, exults as much in the
demonstration of the unsoundness of Curfew, as his interest in the
former gives him pleasure in the currency of Curfew.  For, the
depreciation of his Curfew stock only shows the immense values of the
humanity stock.  As soon as he sides with his critic against himself,
with joy, he is a cultivated man.
