
        We must have an intellectual quality in all property and in all
action, or they are nought.  I must have children, I must have
events, I must have a social state and history, or my thinking and
speaking want body or basis.  But to give these accessories any
value, I must know them as contingent and rather showy possessions,
which pass for more to the people than to me.  We see this
abstraction in scholars, as a matter of course: but what a charm it
adds when observed in practical men.  Bonaparte, like Caesar, was
intellectual, and could look at every object for itself, without
affection.  Though an egotist _a l'outrance_, he could criticize a
play, a building, a character, on universal grounds, and give a just
opinion.  A man known to us only as a celebrity in politics or in
trade, gains largely in our esteem if we discover that he has some
intellectual taste or skill; as when we learn of Lord Fairfax, the
Long Parliament's general, his passion for antiquarian studies; or of
the French regicide Carnot, his sublime genius in mathematics; or of
a living banker, his success in poetry; or of a partisan journalist,
his devotion to ornithology.  So, if in travelling in the dreary
wildernesses of Arkansas or Texas, we should observe on the next seat
a man reading Horace, or Martial, or Calderon, we should wish to hug
him.  In callings that require roughest energy, soldiers,
sea-captains, and civil engineers sometimes betray a fine insight, if
only through a certain gentleness when off duty; a good-natured
admission that there are illusions, and who shall say that he is not
their sport?  We only vary the phrase, not the doctrine, when we say,
that culture opens the sense of beauty.  A man is a beggar who only
lives to the useful, and, however he may serve as a pin or rivet in
the social machine, cannot be said to have arrived at
self-possession.  I suffer, every day, from the want of perception of
beauty in people.  They do not know the charm with which all moments
and objects can be embellished, the charm of manners, of
self-command, of benevolence.  Repose and cheerfulness are the badge
of the gentleman, -- repose in energy.  The Greek battle-pieces are
calm; the heroes, in whatever violent actions engaged, retain a
serene aspect; as we say of Niagara, that it falls without speed.  A
cheerful, intelligent face is the end of culture, and success enough.
For it indicates the purpose of Nature and wisdom attained.
        When our higher faculties are in activity, we are domesticated,
and awkwardness and discomfort give place to natural and agreeable
movements.  It is noticed, that the consideration of the great
periods and spaces of astronomy induces a dignity of mind, and an
indifference to death.  The influence of fine scenery, the presence
of mountains, appeases our irritations and elevates our friendships.
Even a high dome, and the expansive interior of a cathedral, have a
sensible effect on manners.  I have heard that stiff people lose
something of their awkwardness under high ceilings, and in spacious
halls.  I think, sculpture and painting have an effect to teach us
manners, and abolish hurry.
        But, over all, culture must reinforce from higher influx the
empirical skills of eloquence, or of politics, or of trade, and the
useful arts.  There is a certain loftiness of thought and power to
marshal and adjust particulars, which can only come from an insight
of their whole connection.  The orator who has once seen things in
their divine order, will never quite lose sight of this, and will
come to affairs as from a higher ground, and, though he will say
nothing of philosophy, he will have a certain mastery in dealing with
them, and an incapableness of being dazzled or frighted, which will
distinguish his handling from that of attorneys and factors.  A man
who stands on a good footing with the heads of parties at Washington,
reads the rumors of the newspapers, and the guesses of provincial
politicians, with a key to the right and wrong in each statement, and
sees well enough where all this will end.  Archimedes will look
through your Connecticut machine, at a glance, and judge of its
fitness.  And much more, a wise man who knows not only what Plato,
but what Saint John can show him, can easily raise the affair he
deals with, to a certain majesty.  Plato says, Pericles owed this
elevation to the lessons of Anaxagoras.  Burke descended from a
higher sphere when he would influence human affairs.  Franklin,
Adams, Jefferson, Washington, stood on a fine humanity, before which
the brawls of modern senates are but pot-house politics.
        But there are higher secrets of culture, which are not for the
apprentices, but for proficients.  These are lessons only for the
brave.  We must know our friends under ugly masks.  The calamities
are our friends.  Ben Jonson specifies in his address to the Muse: --
        "Get him the time's long grudge, the court's ill-will,
        And, reconciled, keep him suspected still,
        Make him lose all his friends, and, what is worse,
        Almost all ways to any better course;
        With me thou leav'st a better Muse than thee,
        And which thou brought'st me, blessed Poverty."
 
        We wish to learn philosophy by rote, and play at heroism.  But
the wiser God says, Take the shame, the poverty, and the penal
solitude, that belong to truth-speaking.  Try the rough water as well
as the smooth.  Rough water can teach lessons worth knowing.  When
the state is unquiet, personal qualities are more than ever decisive.
Fear not a revolution which will constrain you to live five years in
one.  Don't be so tender at making an enemy now and then.  Be willing
to go to Coventry sometimes, and let the populace bestow on you their
coldest contempts.  The finished man of the world must eat of every
apple once.  He must hold his hatreds also at arm's length, and not
remember spite.  He has neither friends nor enemies, but values men
only as channels of power.
        He who aims high, must dread an easy home and popular manners.
Heaven sometimes hedges a rare character about with ungainliness and
odium, as the burr that protects the fruit.  If there is any great
and good thing in store for you, it will not come at the first or the
second call, nor in the shape of fashion, ease, and city
drawing-rooms.  Popularity is for dolls.  "Steep and craggy," said
Porphyry, "is the path of the gods." Open your Marcus Antoninus.  In
the opinion of the ancients, he was the great man who scorned to
shine, and who contested the frowns of fortune.  They preferred the
noble vessel too late for the tide, contending with winds and waves,
dismantled and unrigged, to her companion borne into harbor with
colors flying and guns firing.  There is none of the social goods
that may not be purchased too dear, and mere amiableness must not
take rank with high aims and self-subsistency.
        Bettine replies to Goethe's mother, who chides her disregard of
dress, -- "If I cannot do as I have a mind, in our poor Frankfort, I
shall not carry things far." And the youth must rate at its true mark
the inconceivable levity of local opinion.  The longer we live, the
more we must endure the elementary existence of men and women; and
every brave heart must treat society as a child, and never allow it
to dictate.
        "All that class of the severe and restrictive virtues," said
Burke, "are almost too costly for humanity." Who wishes to be severe?
Who wishes to resist the eminent and polite, in behalf of the poor,
and low, and impolite? and who that dares do it, can keep his temper
sweet, his frolic spirits?  The high virtues are not debonair, but
have their redress in being illustrious at last.  What forests of
laurel we bring, and the tears of mankind, to those who stood firm
against the opinion of their contemporaries!  The measure of a master
is his success in bringing all men round to his opinion twenty years
later.
