
        Let me say here, that culture cannot begin too early.  In
talking with scholars, I observe that they lost on ruder companions
those years of boyhood which alone could give imaginative literature
a religious and infinite quality in their esteem.  I find, too, that
the chance for appreciation is much increased by being the son of an
appreciator, and that these boys who now grow up are caught not only
years too late, but two or three births too late, to make the best
scholars of.  And I think it a presentable motive to a scholar, that,
as, in an old community, a well-born proprietor is usually found,
after the first heats of youth, to be a careful husband, and to feel
a habitual desire that the estate shall suffer no harm by his
administration, but shall be delivered down to the next heir in as
good condition as he received it; -- so, a considerate man will
reckon himself a subject of that secular melioration by which mankind
is mollified, cured, and refined, and will shun every expenditure of
his forces on pleasure or gain, which will jeopardize this social and
secular accumulation.
        The fossil strata show us that Nature began with rudimental
forms, and rose to the more complex, as fast as the earth was fit for
their dwelling-place; and that the lower perish, as the higher
appear.  Very few of our race can be said to be yet finished men.  We
still carry sticking to us some remains of the preceding inferior
quadruped organization.  We call these millions men; but they are not
yet men.  Half-engaged in the soil, pawing to get free, man needs all
the music that can be brought to disengage him.  If Love, red Love,
with tears and joy; if Want with his scourge; if War with his
cannonade; if Christianity with its charity; if Trade with its money;
if Art with its portfolios; if Science with her telegraphs through
the deeps of space and time; can set his dull nerves throbbing, and
by loud taps on the tough chrysalis, can break its walls, and let the
new creature emerge erect and free, -- make way, and sing paean!  The
age of the quadruped is to go out, -- the age of the brain and of the
heart is to come in.  The time will come when the evil forms we have
known can no more be organized.  Man's culture can spare nothing,
wants all the material.  He is to convert all impediments into
instruments, all enemies into power.  The formidable mischief will
only make the more useful slave.  And if one shall read the future of
the race hinted in the organic effort of Nature to mount and
meliorate, and the corresponding impulse to the Better in the human
being, we shall dare affirm that there is nothing he will not
overcome and convert, until at last culture shall absorb the chaos
and gehenna.  He will convert the Furies into Muses, and the hells
into benefit.
 
        V
 
        BEHAVIOR
 
        Grace, Beauty, and Caprice
        Build this golden portal;
        Graceful women, chosen men
        Dazzle every mortal:
        Their sweet and lofty countenance
        His enchanting food;
        He need not go to them, their forms
        Beset his solitude.
        He looketh seldom in their face,
        His eyes explore the ground,
        The green grass is a looking-glass
        Whereon their traits are found.
        Little he says to them,
        So dances his heart in his breast,
        Their tranquil mien bereaveth him
        Of wit, of words, of rest.
        Too weak to win, too fond to shun
        The tyrants of his doom,
        The much deceived Endymion
        Slips behind a tomb.
 
        _Behavior_
        The soul which animates Nature is not less sigshed in the
figure, movement, and gesture of animated bodies, than in its last
vehicle of articulate speech.  This silent and subtile language is
Manners; not _what_, but _how_.  Life expresses.  A statue has no
tongue, and needs none.  Good tableaux do not need declamation.
Nature tells every secret once.  Yes, but in man she tells it all the
time, by form, attitude, gesture, mien, face, and parts of the face,
and by the whole action of the machine.  The visible carriage or
action of the individual, as resulting from his organization and his
will combined, we call manners.  What are they but thought entering
the hands and feet, controlling the movements of the body, the speech
and behavior?
        There is always a best way of doing everything, if it be to
boil an egg.  Manners are the happy ways of doing things; each once a
stroke of genius or of love, -- now repeated and hardened into usage.
They form at last a rich varnish, with which the routine of life is
washed, and its details adorned.  If they are superficial, so are the
dew-drops which give such a depth to the morning meadows.  Manners
are very communicable: men catch them from each other.  Consuelo, in
the romance, boasts of the lessons she had given the nobles in
manners, on the stage; and, in real life, Talma taught Napoleon the
arts of behavior.  Genius invents fine manners, which the baron and
the baroness copy very fast, and, by the advantage of a palace,
better the instruction.  They stereotype the lesson they have learned
into a mode.
        The power of manners is incessant, -- an element as
unconcealable as fire.  The nobility cannot in any country be
disguised, and no more in a republic or a democracy, than in a
kingdom.  No man can resist their influence.  There are certain
manners which are learned in good society, of that force, that, if a
person have them, he or she must be considered, and is everywhere
welcome, though without beauty, or wealth, or genius.  Give a boy
address and accomplishments, and you give him the mastery of palaces
and fortunes where he goes.  He has not the trouble of earning or
owning them: they solicit him to enter and possess.  We send girls of
a timid, retreating disposition to the boarding-school, to the
riding-school, to the ballroom, or wheresoever they can come into
acquaintance and nearness of leading persons of their own sex; where
they might learn address, and see it near at hand.  The power of a
woman of fashion to lead, and also to daunt and repel, derives from
their belief that she knows resources and behaviors not known to
them; but when these have mastered her secret, they learn to confront
her, and recover their self-possession.
        Every day bears witness to their gentle rule.  People who would
obtrude, now do not obtrude.  The mediocre circle learns to demand
that which belongs to a high state of nature or of culture.  Your
manners are always under examination, and by committees little
suspected, -- a police in citizens' clothes, -- but are awarding or
denying you very high prizes when you least think of it.
