
        We talk much of utilities, -- but 'tis our manners that
associate us.  In hours of business, we go to him who knows, or has,
or does this or that which we want, and we do not let our taste or
feeling stand in the way.  But this activity over, we return to the
indolent state, and wish for those we can be at ease with; those who
will go where we go, whose manners do not offend us, whose social
tone chimes with ours.  When we reflect on their persuasive and
cheering force; how they recommend, prepare, and draw people
together; how, in all clubs, manners make the members; how manners
make the fortune of the ambitious youth; that, for the most part, his
manners marry him, and, for the most part, he marries manners; when
we think what keys they are, and to what secrets; what high lessons
and inspiring tokens of character they convey; and what divination is
required in us, for the reading of this fine telegraph, we see what
range the subject has, and what relations to convenience, power, and
beauty.
        Their first service is very low, -- when they are the minor
morals: but 'tis the beginning of civility, -- to make us, I mean,
endurable to each other.  We prize them for their rough-plastic,
abstergent force; to get people out of the quadruped state; to get
them washed, clothed, and set up on end; to slough their animal husks
and habits; compel them to be clean; overawe their spite and
meanness, teach them to stifle the base, and choose the generous
expression, and make them know how much happier the generous
behaviors are.
        Bad behavior the laws cannot reach.  Society is infested with
rude, cynical, restless, and frivolous persons who prey upon the
rest, and whom, a public opinion concentrated into good manners,
forms accepted by the sense of all, can reach: -- the contradictors
and railers at public and private tables, who are like terriers, who
conceive it the duty of a dog of honor to growl at any passer-by, and
do the honors of the house by barking him out of sight: -- I have
seen men who neigh like a horse when you contradict them, or say
something which they do not understand: -- then the overbold, who
make their own invitation to your hearth; the persevering talker, who
gives you his society in large, saturating doses; the pitiers of
themselves, -- a perilous class; the frivolous Asmodeus, who relies
on you to find him in ropes of sand to twist; the monotones; in
short, every stripe of absurdity; -- these are social inflictions
which the magistrate cannot cure or defend you from, and which must
be intrusted to the restraining force of custom, and proverbs, and
familiar rules of behavior impressed on young people in their
school-days.
        In the hotels on the banks of the Mississippi, they print, or
used to print, among the rules of the house, that "no gentleman can
be permitted to come to the public table without his coat;" and in
the same country, in the pews of the churches, little placards plead
with the worshipper against the fury of expectoration.  Charles
Dickens self-sacrificingly undertook the reformation of our American
manners in unspeakable particulars.  I think the lesson was not quite
lost; that it held bad manners up, so that the churls could see the
deformity.  Unhappily, the book had its own deformities.  It ought
not to need to print in a reading-room a caution to strangers not to
speak loud; nor to persons who look over fine engravings, that they
should be handled like cobwebs and butterflies' wings; nor to persons
who look at marble statues, that they shall not smite them with
canes.  But, even in the perfect civilization of this city, such
cautions are not quite needless in the Athenaeum and City Library.
        Manners are factitious, and grow out of circumstance as well as
out of character.  If you look at the pictures of patricians and of
peasants, of different periods and countries, you will see how well
they match the same classes in our towns.  The modern aristocrat not
only is well drawn in Titian's Venetian doges, and in Roman coins and
statues, but also in the pictures which Commodore Perry brought home
of dignitaries in Japan.  Broad lands and great interests not only
arrive to such heads as can manage them, but form manners of power.
A keen eye, too, will see nice gradations of rank, or see in the
manners the degree of homage the party is wont to receive.  A prince
who is accustomed every day to be courted and deferred to by the
highest grandees, acquires a corresponding expectation, and a
becoming mode of receiving and replying to this homage.
        There are always exceptional people and modes.  English
grandees affect to be farmers.  Claverhouse is a fop, and, under the
finish of dress, and levity of behavior, hides the terror of his war.
But Nature and Destiny are honest, and never fail to leave their
mark, to hang out a sign for each and for every quality.  It is much
to conquer one's face, and perhaps the ambitious youth thinks he has
got the whole secret when he has learned, that disengaged manners are
commanding.  Don't be deceived by a facile exterior.  Tender men
sometimes have strong wills.  We had, in Massachusetts, an old
statesman, who had sat all his life in courts and in chairs of state,
without overcoming an extreme irritability of face, voice, and
bearing: when he spoke, his voice would not serve him; it cracked, it
broke, it wheezed, it piped; -- little cared he; he knew that it had
got to pipe, or wheeze, or screech his argument and his indignation.
When he sat down, after speaking, he seemed in a sort of fit, and
held on to his chair with both hands: but underneath all this
irritability, was a puissant will, firm, and advancing, and a memory
in which lay in order and method like geologic strata every fact of
his history, and under the control of his will.
        Manners are partly factitious, but, mainly, there must be
capacity for culture in the blood.  Else all culture is vain.  The
obstinate prejudice in favor of blood, which lies at the base of the
feudal and monarchical fabrics of the old world, has some reason in
common experience.  Every man,-- mathematician, artist, soldier, or
merchant, -- looks with confidence for some traits and talents in his
own child, which he would not dare to presume in the child of a
stranger.  The Orientalists are very orthodox on this point.  "Take a
thorn-bush," said the emir Abdel-Kader, "and sprinkle it for a whole
year with water; -- it will yield nothing but thorns.  Take a
date-tree, leave it without culture, and it will always produce
dates.  Nobility is the date-tree, and the Arab populace is a bush of
thorns."
        A main fact in the history of manners is the wonderful
expressiveness of the human body.  If it were made of glass, or of
air, and the thoughts were written on steel tablets within, it could
not publish more truly its meaning than now.  Wise men read very
sharply all your private history in your look and gait and behavior.
The whole economy of nature is bent on expression.  The tell-tale
body is all tongues.  Men are like Geneva watches with crystal faces
which expose the whole movement.  They carry the liquor of life
flowing up and down in these beautiful bottles, and announcing to the
curious how it is with them.  The face and eyes reveal what the
spirit is doing, how old it is, what aims it has.  The eyes indicate
the antiquity of the soul, or, through how many forms it has already
ascended.  It almost violates the proprieties, if we say above the
breath here, what the confessing eyes do not hesitate to utter to
every street passenger.
