
        Man cannot fix his eye on the sun, and so far seems imperfect.
In Siberia, a late traveller found men who could see the satellites
of Jupiter with their unarmed eye.  In some respects the animals
excel us.  The birds have a longer sight, beside the advantage by
their wings of a higher observatory.  A cow can bid her calf, by
secret signal, probably of the eye, to run away, or to lie down and
hide itself.  The jockeys say of certain horses, that "they look over
the whole ground." The out-door life, and hunting, and labor, give
equal vigor to the human eye.  A farmer looks out at you as strong as
the horse; his eye-beam is like the stroke of a staff.  An eye can
threaten like a loaded and levelled gun, or can insult like hissing
or kicking; or, in its altered mood, by beams of kindness, it can
make the heart dance with joy.
        The eye obeys exactly the action of the mind.  When a thought
strikes us, the eyes fix, and remain gazing at a distance; in
enumerating the names of persons or of countries, as France, Germany,
Spain, Turkey, the eyes wink at each new name.  There is no nicety of
learning sought by the mind, which the eyes do not vie in acquiring.
"An artist," said Michel Angelo, "must have his measuring tools not
in the hand, but in the eye;" and there is no end to the catalogue of
its performances, whether in indolent vision, (that of health and
beauty,) or in strained vision, (that of art and labor.)
        Eyes are bold as lions, -- roving, running, leaping, here and
there, far and near.  They speak all languages.  They wait for no
introduction; they are no Englishmen; ask no leave of age, or rank;
they respect neither poverty nor riches, neither learning nor power,
nor virtue, nor sex, but intrude, and come again, and go through and
through you, in a moment of time.  What inundation of life and
thought is discharged from one soul into another, through them!  The
glance is natural magic.  The mysterious communication established
across a house between two entire strangers, moves all the springs of
wonder.  The communication by the glance is in the greatest part not
subject to the control of the will.  It is the bodily symbol of
identity of nature.  We look into the eyes to know if this other form
is another self, and the eyes will not lie, but make a faithful
confession what inhabitant is there.  The revelations are sometimes
terrific.  The confession of a low, usurping devil is there made, and
the observer shall seem to feel the stirring of owls, and bats, and
horned hoofs, where he looked for innocence and simplicity.  'Tis
remarkable, too, that the spirit that appears at the windows of the
house does at once invest himself in a new form of his own, to the
mind of the beholder.
        The eyes of men converse as much as their tongues, with the
advantage, that the ocular dialect needs no dictionary, but is
understood all the world over.  When the eyes say one thing, and the
tongue another, a practised man relies on the language of the first.
If the man is off his centre, the eyes show it.  You can read in the
eyes of your companion, whether your argument hits him, though his
tongue will not confess it.  There is a look by which a man shows he
is going to say a good thing, and a look when he has said it.  Vain
and forgotten are all the fine offers and offices of hospitality, if
there is no holiday in the eye.  How many furtive inclinations avowed
by the eye, though dissembled by the lips!  One comes away from a
company, in which, it may easily happen, he has said nothing, and no
important remark has been addressed to him, and yet, if in sympathy
with the society, he shall not have a sense of this fact, such a
stream of life has been flowing into him, and out from him, through
the eyes.  There are eyes, to be sure, that give no more admission
into the man than blueberries.  Others are liquid and deep, -- wells
that a man might fall into; -- others are aggressive and devouring,
seem to call out the police, take all too much notice, and require
crowded Broadways, and the security of millions, to protect
individuals against them.  The military eye I meet, now darkly
sparkling under clerical, now under rustic brows.  'Tis the city of
Lacedaemon; 'tis a stack of bayonets.  There are asking eyes,
asserting eyes, prowling eyes; and eyes full of fate, -- some of
good, and some of sinister omen.  The alleged power to charm down
insanity, or ferocity in beasts, is a power behind the eye.  It must
be a victory achieved in the will, before it can be signified in the
eye.  'Tis very certain that each man carries in his eye the exact
indication of his rank in the immense scale of men, and we are always
learning to read it.  A complete man should need no auxiliaries to
his personal presence.  Whoever looked on him would consent to his
will, being certified that his aims were generous and universal.  The
reason why men do not obey us, is because they see the mud at the
bottom of our eye.
        If the organ of sight is such a vehicle of power, the other
features have their own.  A man finds room in the few square inches
of the face for the traits of all his ancestors; for the expression
of all his history, and his wants.  The sculptor, and Winckelmann,
and Lavater, will tell you how significant a feature is the nose; how
its forms express strength or weakness of will, and good or bad
temper.  The nose of Julius Caesar, of Dante, and of Pitt, suggest
"the terrors of the beak." What refinement, and what limitations, the
teeth betray!  "Beware you don't laugh," said the wise mother, "for
then you show all your faults."
        Balzac left in manuscript a chapter, which he called "_Theorie
de la demarche_," in which he says: "The look, the voice, the
respiration, and the attitude or walk, are identical.  But, as it has
not been given to man, the power to stand guard, at once, over these
four different simultaneous expressions of his thought, watch that
one which speaks out the truth, and you will know the whole man."
        Palaces interest us mainly in the exhibition of manners, which,
in the idle and expensive society dwelling in them, are raised to a
high art.  The maxim of courts is, that manner is power.  A calm and
resolute bearing, a polished speech, an embellishment of trifles, and
the art of hiding all uncomfortable feeling, are essential to the
courtier: and Saint Simon, and Cardinal de Retz, and R;oederer, and
an encyclopaedia of _Memoires_, will instruct you, if you wish, in
those potent secrets.  Thus, it is a point of pride with kings, to
remember faces and names.  It is reported of one prince, that his
head had the air of leaning downwards, in order not to humble the
crowd.  There are people who come in ever like a child with a piece
of good news.  It was said of the late Lord Holland, that he always
came down to breakfast with the air of a man who had just met with
some signal good-fortune.  In "_Notre Dame_," the grandee took his
place on the dais, with the look of one who is thinking of something
else.  But we must not peep and eavesdrop at palace-doors.
        Fine manners need the support of fine manners in others.  A
scholar may be a well-bred man, or he may not.  The enthusiast is
introduced to polished scholars in society, and is chilled and
silenced by finding himself not in their element.  They all have
somewhat which he has not, and, it seems, ought to have.  But if he
finds the scholar apart from his companions, it is then the
enthusiast's turn, and the scholar has no defence, but must deal on
his terms.  Now they must fight the battle out on their private
strengths.  What is the talent of that character so common, -- the
successful man of the world, -- in all marts, senates, and
drawing-rooms?  Manners: manners of power; sense to see his
advantage, and manners up to it.  See him approach his man.  He knows
that troops behave as they are handled at first; -- that is his cheap
secret; just what happens to every two persons who meet on any
affair, -- one instantly perceives that he has the key of the
situation, that his will comprehends the other's will, as the cat
does the mouse; and he has only to use courtesy, and furnish
good-natured reasons to his victim to cover up the chain, lest he be
shamed into resistance.
