
        Self-reliance is the basis of behavior, as it is the guaranty
that the powers are not squandered in too much demonstration.  In
this country, where school education is universal, we have a
superficial culture, and a profusion of reading and writing and
expression.  We parade our nobilities in poems and orations, instead
of working them up into happiness.  There is a whisper out of the
ages to him who can understand it, -- `whatever is known to thyself
alone, has always very great value.' There is some reason to believe,
that, when a man does not write his poetry, it escapes by other vents
through him, instead of the one vent of writing; clings to his form
and manners, whilst poets have often nothing poetical about them
except their verses.  Jacobi said, that "when a man has fully
expressed his thought, he has somewhat less possession of it." One
would say, the rule is, -- What a man is irresistibly urged to say,
helps him and us.  In explaining his thought to others, he explains
it to himself: but when he opens it for show, it corrupts him.
        Society is the stage on which manners are shown; novels are
their literature.  Novels are the journal or record of manners; and
the new importance of these books derives from the fact, that the
novelist begins to penetrate the surface, and treat this part of life
more worthily.  The novels used to be all alike, and had a quite
vulgar tone.  The novels used to lead us on to a foolish interest in
the fortunes of the boy and girl they described.  The boy was to be
raised from a humble to a high position.  He was in want of a wife
and a castle, and the object of the story was to supply him with one
or both.  We watched sympathetically, step by step, his climbing,
until, at last, the point is gained, the wedding day is fixed, and we
follow the gala procession home to the castle, when the doors are
slammed in our face, and the poor reader is left outside in the cold,
not enriched by so much as an idea, or a virtuous impulse.
        But the victories of character are instant, and victories for
all.  Its greatness enlarges all.  We are fortified by every heroic
anecdote.  The novels are as useful as Bibles, if they teach you the
secret, that the best of life is conversation, and the greatest
success is confidence, or perfect understanding between sincere
people.  'Tis a French definition of friendship, _rien que
s'entendre_, good understanding.  The highest compact we can make
with our fellow, is, -- `Let there be truth between us two
forevermore.' That is the charm in all good novels, as it is the
charm in all good histories, that the heroes mutually understand,
from the first, and deal loyally, and with a profound trust in each
other.  It is sublime to feel and say of another, I need never meet,
or speak, or write to him: we need not reinforce ourselves, or send
tokens of remembrance: I rely on him as on myself: if he did thus or
thus, I know it was right.
        In all the superior people I have met, I notice directness,
truth spoken more truly, as if everything of obstruction, of
malformation, had been trained away.  What have they to conceal?
What have they to exhibit?  Between simple and noble persons, there
is always a quick intelligence: they recognize at sight, and meet on
a better ground than the talents and skills they may chance to
possess, namely, on sincerity and uprightness.  For, it is not what
talents or genius a man has, but how he is to his talents, that
constitutes friendship and character.  The man that stands by
himself, the universe stands by him also.  It is related of the monk
Basle, that, being excommunicated by the Pope, he was, at his death,
sent in charge of an angel to find a fit place of suffering in hell:
but, such was the eloquence and good-humor of the monk, that,
wherever he went he was received gladly, and civilly treated, even by
the most uncivil angels: and, when he came to discourse with them,
instead of contradicting or forcing him, they took his part, and
adopted his manners: and even good angels came from far, to see him,
and take up their abode with him.  The angel that was sent to find a
place of torment for him, attempted to remove him to a worse pit, but
with no better success; for such was the contented spirit of the
monk, that he found something to praise in every place and company,
though in hell, and made a kind of heaven of it.  At last the
escorting angel returned with his prisoner to them that sent him,
saying, that no phlegethon could be found that would burn him; for
that, in whatever condition, Basle remained incorrigibly Basle.  The
legend says, his sentence was remitted, and he was allowed to go into
heaven, and was canonized as a saint.
        There is a stroke of magnanimity in the correspondence of
Bonaparte with his brother Joseph, when the latter was King of Spain,
and complained that he missed in Napoleon's letters the affectionate
tone which had marked their childish correspondence.  "I am sorry,"
replies Napoleon, "you think you shall find your brother again only
in the Elysian Fields.  It is natural, that at forty, he should not
feel towards you as he did at twelve.  But his feelings towards you
have greater truth and strength.  His friendship has the features of
his mind."
        How much we forgive to those who yield us the rare spectacle of
heroic manners!  We will pardon them the want of books, of arts, and
even of the gentler virtues.  How tenaciously we remember them!  Here
is a lesson which I brought along with me in boyhood from the Latin
School, and which ranks with the best of Roman anecdotes.  Marcus
Scaurus was accused by Quintus Varius Hispanus, that he had excited
the allies to take arms against the Republic.  But he, full of
firmness and gravity, defended himself in this manner: "Quintus
Varius Hispanus alleges that Marcus Scaurus, President of the Senate,
excited the allies to arms: Marcus Scaurus, President of the Senate,
denies it.  There is no witness.  Which do you believe, Romans?"
_"Utri creditis, Quirites?"_ When he had said these words, he was
absolved by the assembly of the people.
        I have seen manners that make a similar impression with
personal beauty; that give the like exhilaration, and refine us like
that; and, in memorable experiences, they are suddenly better than
beauty, and make that superfluous and ugly.  But they must be marked
by fine perception, the acquaintance with real beauty.  They must
always show self-control: you shall not be facile, apologetic, or
leaky, but king over your word; and every gesture and action shall
indicate power at rest.  Then they must be inspired by the good
heart.  There is no beautifier of complexion, or form, or behavior,
like the wish to scatter joy and not pain around us.  'Tis good to
give a stranger a meal, or a night's lodging.  'Tis better to be
hospitable to his good meaning and thought, and give courage to a
companion.  We must be as courteous to a man as we are to a picture,
which we are willing to give the advantage of a good light.  Special
precepts are not to be thought of: the talent of well-doing contains
them all.  Every hour will show a duty as paramount as that of my
whim just now; and yet I will write it, -- that there is one topic
peremptorily forbidden to all well-bred, to all rational mortals,
namely, their distempers.  If you have not slept, or if you have
slept, or if you have headache, or sciatica, or leprosy, or
thunder-stroke, I beseech you, by all angels, to hold your peace, and
not pollute the morning, to which all the housemates bring serene and
pleasant thoughts, by corruption and groans.  Come out of the azure.
Love the day.  Do not leave the sky out of your landscape.  The
oldest and the most deserving person should come very modestly into
any newly awaked company, respecting the divine communications, out
of which all must be presumed to have newly come.  An old man who
added an elevating culture to a large experience of life, said to me,
"When you come into the room, I think I will study how to make
humanity beautiful to you."
        As respects the delicate question of culture, I do not think
that any other than negative rules can be laid down.  For positive
rules, for suggestion, Nature alone inspires it.  Who dare assume to
guide a youth, a maid, to perfect manners? -- the golden mean is so
delicate, difficult, -- say frankly, unattainable.  What finest hands
would not be clumsy to sketch the genial precepts of the young girl's
demeanor?  The chances seem infinite against success; and yet success
is continually attained.  There must not be secondariness, and 'tis a
thousand to one that her air and manner will at once betray that she
is not primary, but that there is some other one or many of her
class, to whom she habitually postpones herself.  But Nature lifts
her easily, and without knowing it, over these impossibilities, and
we are continually surprised with graces and felicities not only
unteachable, but undescribable.
