
        VI
 
        WORSHIP
 
        This is he, who, felled by foes,
        Sprung harmless up, refreshed by blows:
        He to captivity was sold,
        But him no prison-bars would hold:
        Though they sealed him in a rock,
        Mountain chains he can unlock:
        Thrown to lions for their meat,
        The crouching lion kissed his feet:
        Bound to the stake, no flames appalled,
        But arched o'er him an honoring vault.
        This is he men miscall Fate,
        Threading dark ways, arriving late,
        But ever coming in time to crown
        The truth, and hurl wrongdoers down.
        He is the oldest, and best known,
        More near than aught thou call'st thy own,
        Yet, greeted in another's eyes,
        Disconcerts with glad surprise.
        This is Jove, who, deaf to prayers,
        Floods with blessings unawares.
        Draw, if thou canst, the mystic line,
        Severing rightly his from thine,
        Which is human, which divine.
 
        _Worship_
        Some of my friends have complained, when the preceding papers
were read, that we discussed Fate, Power, and Wealth, on too low a
platform; gave too much line to the evil spirit of the times; too
many cakes to Cerberus; that we ran Cudworth's risk of making, by
excess of candor, the argument of atheism so strong, that he could
not answer it.  I have no fears of being forced in my own despite to
play, as we say, the devil's attorney.  I have no infirmity of faith;
no belief that it is of much importance what I or any man may say: I
am sure that a certain truth will be said through me, though I should
be dumb, or though I should try to say the reverse.  Nor do I fear
skepticism for any good soul.  A just thinker will allow full swing
to his skepticism.  I dip my pen in the blackest ink, because I am
not afraid of falling into my inkpot.  I have no sympathy with a poor
man I knew, who, when suicides abounded, told me he dared not look at
his razor.  We are of different opinions at different hours, but we
always may be said to be at heart on the side of truth.
        I see not why we should give ourselves such sanctified airs.
If the Divine Providence has hid from men neither disease, nor
deformity, nor corrupt society, but has stated itself out in
passions, in war, in trade, in the love of power and pleasure, in
hunger and need, in tyrannies, literatures, and arts, -- let us not
be so nice that we cannot write these facts down coarsely as they
stand, or doubt but there is a counter-statement as ponderous, which
we can arrive at, and which, being put, will make all square.  The
solar system has no anxiety about its reputation, and the credit of
truth and honesty is as safe; nor have I any fear that a skeptical
bias can be given by leaning hard on the sides of fate, of practical
power, or of trade, which the doctrine of Faith cannot down-weigh.
The strength of that principle is not measured in ounces and pounds:
it tyrannizes at the centre of Nature.  We may well give skepticism
as much line as we can.  The spirit will return, and fill us.  It
drives the drivers.  It counterbalances any accumulations of power.
 
 
        "Heaven kindly gave our blood a moral flow."
 
        We are born loyal.  The whole creation is made of hooks and
eyes, of bitumen, of sticking-plaster, and whether your community is
made in Jerusalem or in California, of saints or of wreckers, it
coheres in a perfect ball.  Men as naturally make a state, or a
church, as caterpillars a web.  If they were more refined, it would
be less formal, it would be nervous, like that of the Shakers, who,
from long habit of thinking and feeling together, it is said, are
affected in the same way, at the same time, to work and to play, and
as they go with perfect sympathy to their tasks in the field or shop,
so are they inclined for a ride or a journey at the same instant, and
the horses come up with the family carriage unbespoken to the door.
        We are born believing.  A man bears beliefs, as a tree bears
apples.  A self-poise belongs to every particle; and a rectitude to
every mind, and is the Nemesis and protector of every society.  I and
my neighbors have been bred in the notion, that, unless we came soon
to some good church, -- Calvinism, or Behmenism, or Romanism, or
Mormonism, -- there would be a universal thaw and dissolution.  No
Isaiah or Jeremy has arrived.  Nothing can exceed the anarchy that
has followed in our skies.  The stern old faiths have all pulverized.
'Tis a whole population of gentlemen and ladies out in search of
religions.  'Tis as flat anarchy in our ecclesiastic realms, as that
which existed in Massachusetts, in the Revolution, or which prevails
now on the slope of the Rocky Mountains or Pike's Peak.  Yet we make
shift to live.  Men are loyal.  Nature has self-poise in all her
works; certain proportions in which oxygen and azote combine, and,
not less a harmony in faculties, a fitness in the spring and the
regulator.
        The decline of the influence of Calvin, or Fenelon, or Wesley,
or Channing, need give us no uneasiness.  The builder of heaven has
not so ill constructed his creature as that the religion, that is,
the public nature, should fall out: the public and the private
element, like north and south, like inside and outside, like
centrifugal and centripetal, adhere to every soul, and cannot be
subdued, except the soul is dissipated.  God builds his temple in the
heart on the ruins of churches and religions.
 
        In the last chapters, we treated some particulars of the
question of culture.  But the whole state of man is a state of
culture; and its flowering and completion may be described as
Religion, or Worship.  There is always some religion, some hope and
fear extended into the invisible, -- from the blind boding which
nails a horseshoe to the mast or the threshold, up to the song of the
Elders in the Apocalypse.  But the religion cannot rise above the
state of the votary.  Heaven always bears some proportion to earth.
The god of the cannibals will be a cannibal, of the crusaders a
crusader, and of the merchants a merchant.  In all ages, souls out of
time, extraordinary, prophetic, are born, who are rather related to
the system of the world, than to their particular age and locality.
These announce absolute truths, which, with whatever reverence
received, are speedily dragged down into a savage interpretation.
The interior tribes of our Indians, and some of the Pacific
islanders, flog their gods, when things take an unfavorable turn.
The Greek poets did not hesitate to let loose their petulant wit on
their deities also.  Laomedon, in his anger at Neptune and Apollo,
who had built Troy for him, and demanded their price, does not
hesitate to menace them that he will cut their ears off.  (*) Among
our Norse forefathers, King Olaf's mode of converting Eyvind to
Christianity was to put a pan of glowing coals on his belly, which
burst asunder.  "Wilt thou now, Eyvind, believe in Christ?" asks
Olaf, in excellent faith.  Another argument was an adder put into the
mouth of the reluctant disciple Rand, who refused to believe.
        (*) Iliad, Book xxi. l. 455.
