
        And, last of all, high over thought, in the world of morals,
Fate appears as vindicator, levelling the high, lifting the low,
requiring justice in man, and always striking soon or late, when
justice is not done.  What is useful will last; what is hurtful will
sink.  "The doer must suffer," said the Greeks: "you would soothe a
Deity not to be soothed." "God himself cannot procure good for the
wicked," said the Welsh triad.  "God may consent, but only for a
time," said the bard of Spain.  The limitation is impassable by any
insight of man.  In its last and loftiest ascensions, insight itself,
and the freedom of the will, is one of its obedient members.  But we
must not run into generalizations too large, but show the natural
bounds or essential distinctions, and seek to do justice to the other
elements as well.
        Thus we trace Fate, in matter, mind, and morals, -- in race, in
retardations of strata, and in thought and character as well.  It is
everywhere bound or limitation.  But Fate has its lord; limitation
its limits; is different seen from above and from below; from within
and from without.  For, though Fate is immense, so is power, which is
the other fact in the dual world, immense.  If Fate follows and
limits power, power attends and antagonizes Fate.  We must respect
Fate as natural history, but there is more than natural history.  For
who and what is this criticism that pries into the matter?  Man is
not order of nature, sack and sack, belly and members, link in a
chain, nor any ignominious baggage, but a stupendous antagonism, a
dragging together of the poles of the Universe.  He betrays his
relation to what is below him, -- thick-skulled, small-brained,
fishy, quadrumanous, -- quadruped ill-disguised, hardly escaped into
biped, and has paid for the new powers by loss of some of the old
ones.  But the lightning which explodes and fashions planets, maker
of planets and suns, is in him.  On one side, elemental order,
sandstone and granite, rock-ledges, peat-bog, forest, sea and shore;
and, on the other part, thought, the spirit which composes and
decomposes nature, -- here they are, side by side, god and devil,
mind and matter, king and conspirator, belt and spasm, riding
peacefully together in the eye and brain of every man.
        Nor can he blink the freewill.  To hazard the contradiction, --
freedom is necessary.  If you please to plant yourself on the side of
Fate, and say, Fate is all; then we say, a part of Fate is the
freedom of man.  Forever wells up the impulse of choosing and acting
in the soul.  Intellect annuls Fate.  So far as a man thinks, he is
free.  And though nothing is more disgusting than the crowing about
liberty by slaves, as most men are, and the flippant mistaking for
freedom of some paper preamble like a "Declaration of Independence,"
or the statute right to vote, by those who have never dared to think
or to act, yet it is wholesome to man to look not at Fate, but the
other way: the practical view is the other.  His sound relation to
these facts is to use and command, not to cringe to them.  "Look not
on nature, for her name is fatal," said the oracle.  The too much
contemplation of these limits induces meanness.  They who talk much
of destiny, their birth-star, &c., are in a lower dangerous plane,
and invite the evils they fear.
        I cited the instinctive and heroic races as proud believers in
Destiny.  They conspire with it; a loving resignation is with the
event.  But the dogma makes a different impression, when it is held
by the weak and lazy.  'Tis weak and vicious people who cast the
blame on Fate.  The right use of Fate is to bring up our conduct to
the loftiness of nature.  Rude and invincible except by themselves
are the elements.  So let man be.  Let him empty his breast of his
windy conceits, and show his lordship by manners and deeds on the
scale of nature.  Let him hold his purpose as with the tug of
gravitation.  No power, no persuasion, no bribe shall make him give
up his point.  A man ought to compare advantageously with a river, an
oak, or a mountain.  He shall have not less the flow, the expansion,
and the resistance of these.
        'Tis the best use of Fate to teach a fatal courage.  Go face
the fire at sea, or the cholera in your friend's house, or the
burglar in your own, or what danger lies in the way of duty, knowing
you are guarded by the cherubim of Destiny.  If you believe in Fate
to your harm, believe it, at least, for your good.
        For, if Fate is so prevailing, man also is part of it, and can
confront fate with fate.  If the Universe have these savage
accidents, our atoms are as savage in resistance.  We should be
crushed by the atmosphere, but for the reaction of the air within the
body.  A tube made of a film of glass can resist the shock of the
ocean, if filled with the same water.  If there be omnipotence in the
stroke, there is omnipotence of recoil.
        1. But Fate against Fate is only parrying and defence: there
are, also, the noble creative forces.  The revelation of Thought
takes man out of servitude into freedom.  We rightly say of
ourselves, we were born, and afterward we were born again, and many
times.  We have successive experiences so important, that the new
forgets the old, and hence the mythology of the seven or the nine
heavens.  The day of days, the great day of the feast of life, is
that in which the inward eye opens to the Unity in things, to the
omnipresence of law; -- sees that what is must be, and ought to be,
or is the best.  This beatitude dips from on high down on us, and we
see.  It is not in us so much as we are in it.  If the air come to
our lungs, we breathe and live; if not, we die.  If the light come to
our eyes, we see; else not.  And if truth come to our mind, we
suddenly expand to its dimensions, as if we grew to worlds.  We are
as lawgivers; we speak for Nature; we prophesy and divine.
        This insight throws us on the party and interest of the
Universe, against all and sundry; against ourselves, as much as
others.  A man speaking from insight affirms of himself what is true
of the mind: seeing its immortality, he says, I am immortal; seeing
its invincibility, he says, I am strong.  It is not in us, but we are
in it.  It is of the maker, not of what is made.  All things are
touched and changed by it.  This uses, and is not used.  It distances
those who share it, from those who share it not.  Those who share it
not are flocks and herds.  It dates from itself; -- not from former
men or better men, -- gospel, or constitution, or college, or custom.
Where it shines, Nature is no longer intrusive, but all things make a
musical or pictorial impression.  The world of men show like a comedy
without laughter: -- populations, interests, government, history; --
'tis all toy figures in a toy house.  It does not overvalue
particular truths.  We hear eagerly every thought and word quoted
from an intellectual man.  But, in his presence, our own mind is
roused to activity, and we forget very fast what he says, much more
interested in the new play of our own thought, than in any thought of
his.  'Tis the majesty into which we have suddenly mounted, the
impersonality, the scorn of egotisms, the sphere of laws, that engage
us.  Once we were stepping a little this way, and a little that way;
now, we are as men in a balloon, and do not think so much of the
point we have left, or the point we would make, as of the liberty and
glory of the way.
