
        Christianity, in the romantic ages, signified European culture,
-- the grafted or meliorated tree in a crab forest.  And to marry a
pagan wife or husband, was to marry Beast, and voluntarily to take a
step backwards towards the baboon.
 
        "Hengist had verament
        A daughter both fair and gent,
        But she was heathen Sarazine,
        And Vortigern for love fine
        Her took to fere and to wife,
        And was cursed in all his life;
        For he let Christian wed heathen,
        And mixed our blood as flesh and worms."
        What Gothic mixtures the Christian creed drew from the pagan
sources, Richard of Devizes's chronicle of Richard I.'s crusade, in
the twelfth century, may show.  King Richard taunts God with
forsaking him: "O fie!  O how unwilling should I be to forsake thee,
in so forlorn and dreadful a position, were I thy lord and advocate,
as thou art mine.  In sooth, my standards will in future be despised,
not through my fault, but through thine: in sooth, not through any
cowardice of my warfare, art thou thyself, my king and my God
conquered, this day, and not Richard thy vassal." The religion of the
early English poets is anomalous, so devout and so blasphemous, in
the same breath.  Such is Chaucer's extraordinary confusion of heaven
and earth in the picture of Dido.
        "She was so fair,
        So young, so lusty, with her eyen glad,
        That if that God that heaven and earthe made
        Would have a love for beauty and goodness,
        And womanhede, truth, and seemliness,
        Whom should he loven but this lady sweet?
        There n' is no woman to him half so meet."
        With these grossnesses, we complacently compare our own taste
and decorum.  We think and speak with more temperance and gradation,
-- but is not indifferentism as bad as superstition?
        We live in a transition period, when the old faiths which
comforted nations, and not only so, but made nations, seem to have
spent their force.  I do not find the religions of men at this moment
very creditable to them, but either childish and insignificant, or
unmanly and effeminating.  The fatal trait is the divorce between
religion and morality.  Here are know-nothing religions, or churches
that proscribe intellect; scortatory religions; slave-holding and
slave-trading religions; and, even in the decent populations,
idolatries wherein the whiteness of the ritual covers scarlet
indulgence.  The lover of the old religion complains that our
contemporaries, scholars as well as merchants, succumb to a great
despair, -- have corrupted into a timorous conservatism, and believe
in nothing.  In our large cities, the population is godless,
materialized, -- no bond, no fellow-feeling, no enthusiasm.  These
are not men, but hungers, thirsts, fevers, and appetites walking.
How is it people manage to live on, -- so aimless as they are?  After
their peppercorn aims are gained, it seems as if the lime in their
bones alone held them together, and not any worthy purpose.  There is
no faith in the intellectual, none in the moral universe.  There is
faith in chemistry, in meat, and wine, in wealth, in machinery, in
the steam-engine, galvanic battery, turbine-wheels, sewing machines,
and in public opinion, but not in divine causes.  A silent revolution
has loosed the tension of the old religious sects, and, in place of
the gravity and permanence of those societies of opinion, they run
into freak and extravagance.  In creeds never was such levity;
witness the heathenisms in Christianity, the periodic "revivals," the
Millennium mathematics, the peacock ritualism, the retrogression to
Popery, the maundering of Mormons, the squalor of Mesmerism, the
deliration of rappings, the rat and mouse revelation, thumps in
table-drawers, and black art.  The architecture, the music, the
prayer, partake of the madness: the arts sink into shift and
make-believe.  Not knowing what to do, we ape our ancestors; the
churches stagger backward to the mummeries of the dark ages.  By the
irresistible maturing of the general mind, the Christian traditions
have lost their hold.  The dogma of the mystic offices of Christ
being dropped, and he standing on his genius as a moral teacher, 'tis
impossible to maintain the old emphasis of his personality; and it
recedes, as all persons must, before the sublimity of the moral laws.
From this change, and in the momentary absence of any religious
genius that could offset the immense material activity, there is a
feeling that religion is gone.  When Paul Leroux offered his article
_"Dieu"_ to the conductor of a leading French journal, he replied,
_"La question de Dieu manque d'actualite."_ In Italy, Mr. Gladstone
said of the late King of Naples, "it has been a proverb, that he has
erected the negation of God into a system of government." In this
country, the like stupefaction was in the air, and the phrase "higher
law" became a political jibe.  What proof of infidelity, like the
toleration and propagandism of slavery?  What, like the direction of
education?  What, like the facility of conversion?  What, like the
externality of churches that once sucked the roots of right and
wrong, and now have perished away till they are a speck of whitewash
on the wall?  What proof of skepticism like the base rate at which
the highest mental and moral gifts are held?  Let a man attain the
highest and broadest culture that any American has possessed, then
let him die by sea-storm, railroad collision, or other accident, and
all America will acquiesce that the best thing has happened to him;
that, after the education has gone far, such is the expensiveness of
America, that the best use to put a fine person to, is, to drown him
to save his board.
        Another scar of this skepticism is the distrust in human
virtue.  It is believed by well-dressed proprietors that there is no
more virtue than they possess; that the solid portion of society
exist for the arts of comfort: that life is an affair to put somewhat
between the upper and lower mandibles.  How prompt the suggestion of
a low motive!  Certain patriots in England devoted themselves for
years to creating a public opinion that should break down the
corn-laws and establish free trade.  `Well,' says the man in the
street, `Cobden got a stipend out of it.' Kossuth fled hither across
the ocean to try if he could rouse the New World to a sympathy with
European liberty.  `Aye,' says New York, `he made a handsome thing of
it, enough to make him comfortable for life.'
        See what allowance vice finds in the respectable and
well-conditioned class.  If a pickpocket intrude into the society of
gentlemen, they exert what moral force they have, and he finds
himself uncomfortable, and glad to get away.  But if an adventurer go
through all the forms, procure himself to be elected to a post of
trust, as of senator, or president, -- though by the same arts as we
detest in the house-thief, -- the same gentlemen who agree to
discountenance the private rogue, will be forward to show civilities
and marks of respect to the public one: and no amount of evidence of
his crimes will prevent them giving him ovations, complimentary
dinners, opening their own houses to him, and priding themselves on
his acquaintance.  We were not deceived by the professions of the
private adventurer, -- the louder he talked of his honor, the faster
we counted our spoons; but we appeal to the sanctified preamble of
the messages and proclamations of the public sinner, as the proof of
sincerity.  It must be that they who pay this homage have said to
themselves, On the whole, we don't know about this that you call
honesty; a bird in the hand is better.
        Even well-disposed, good sort of people are touched with the
same infidelity, and for brave, straightforward action, use
half-measures and compromises.  Forgetful that a little measure is a
great error, forgetful that a wise mechanic uses a sharp tool, they
go on choosing the dead men of routine.  But the official men can in
nowise help you in any question of to-day, they deriving entirely
from the old dead things.  Only those can help in counsel or conduct
who did not make a party pledge to defend this or that, but who were
appointed by God Almighty, before they came into the world, to stand
for this which they uphold.
