
        It has been charged that a want of sincerity in the leading men
is a vice general throughout American society.  But the multitude of
the sick shall not make us deny the existence of health.  In spite of
our imbecility and terrors, and "universal decay of religion," &c.
&c., the moral sense reappears to-day with the same morning newness
that has been from of old the fountain of beauty and strength.  You
say, there is no religion now.  'Tis like saying in rainy weather,
there is no sun, when at that moment we are witnessing one of his
superlative effects.  The religion of the cultivated class now, to be
sure, consists in an avoidance of acts and engagements which it was
once their religion to assume.  But this avoidance will yield
spontaneous forms in their due hour.  There is a principle which is
the basis of things, which all speech aims to say, and all action to
evolve, a simple, quiet, undescribed, undescribable presence,
dwelling very peacefully in us, our rightful lord: we are not to do,
but to let do; not to work, but to be worked upon; and to this homage
there is a consent of all thoughtful and just men in all ages and
conditions.  To this sentiment belong vast and sudden enlargements of
power.  'Tis remarkable that our faith in ecstasy consists with total
inexperience of it.  It is the order of the world to educate with
accuracy the senses and the understanding; and the enginery at work
to draw out these powers in priority, no doubt, has its office.  But
we are never without a hint that these powers are mediate and
servile, and that we are one day to deal with real being, -- essences
with essences.  Even the fury of material activity has some results
friendly to moral health.  The energetic action of the times develops
individualism, and the religious appear isolated.  I esteem this a
step in the right direction.  Heaven deals with us on no
representative system.  Souls are not saved in bundles.  The Spirit
saith to the man, `How is it with thee? thee personally? is it well?
is it ill?' For a great nature, it is a happiness to escape a
religious training, -- religion of character is so apt to be invaded.
Religion must always be a crab fruit: it cannot be grafted and keep
its wild beauty.  "I have seen," said a traveller who had known the
extremes of society, "I have seen human nature in all its forms, it
is everywhere the same, but the wilder it is, the more virtuous."
        We say, the old forms of religion decay, and that a skepticism
devastates the community.  I do not think it can be cured or stayed
by any modification of theologic creeds, much less by theologic
discipline.  The cure for false theology is motherwit.  Forget your
books and traditions, and obey your moral perceptions at this hour.
That which is signified by the words "moral" and "spiritual," is a
lasting essence, and, with whatever illusions we have loaded them,
will certainly bring back the words, age after age, to their ancient
meaning.  I know no words that mean so much.  In our definitions, we
grope after the _spiritual_ by describing it as invisible.  The true
meaning of _spiritual_ is _real_; that law which executes itself,
which works without means, and which cannot be conceived as not
existing.  Men talk of "mere morality," -- which is much as if one
should say, `poor God, with nobody to help him.' I find the
omnipresence and the almightiness in the reaction of every atom in
Nature.  I can best indicate by examples those reactions by which
every part of Nature replies to the purpose of the actor, --
beneficently to the good, penally to the bad.  Let us replace
sentimentalism by realism, and dare to uncover those simple and
terrible laws which, be they seen or unseen, pervade and govern.
        Every man takes care that his neighbor shall not cheat him.
But a day comes when he begins to care that he do not cheat his
neighbor.  Then all goes well.  He has changed his market-cart into a
chariot of the sun.  What a day dawns, when we have taken to heart
the doctrine of faith! to prefer, as a better investment, being to
doing; being to seeming; logic to rhythm and to display; the year to
the day; the life to the year; character to performance; -- and have
come to know, that justice will be done us; and, if our genius is
slow, the term will be long.
        'Tis certain that worship stands in some commanding relation to
the health of man, and to his highest powers, so as to be, in some
manner, the source of intellect.  All the great ages have been ages
of belief.  I mean, when there was any extraordinary power of
performance, when great national movements began, when arts appeared,
when heroes existed, when poems were made, the human soul was in
earnest, and had fixed its thoughts on spiritual verities, with as
strict a grasp as that of the hands on the sword, or the pencil, or
the trowel.  It is true that genius takes its rise out of the
mountains of rectitude; that all beauty and power which men covet,
are somehow born out of that Alpine district; that any extraordinary
degree of beauty in man or woman involves a moral charm.  Thus, I
think, we very slowly admit in another man a higher degree of moral
sentiment than our own, -- a finer conscience, more impressionable,
or, which marks minuter degrees; an ear to hear acuter notes of right
and wrong, than we can.  I think we listen suspiciously and very
slowly to any evidence to that point.  But, once satisfied of such
superiority, we set no limit to our expectation of his genius.  For
such persons are nearer to the secret of God than others; are bathed
by sweeter waters; they hear notices, they see visions, where others
are vacant.  We believe that holiness confers a certain insight,
because not by our private, but by our public force, can we share and
know the nature of things.
        There is an intimate interdependence of intellect and morals.
Given the equality of two intellects, -- which will form the most
reliable judgments, the good, or the bad hearted?  "The heart has its
arguments, with which the understanding is not acquainted." For the
heart is at once aware of the state of health or disease, which is
the controlling state, that is, of sanity or of insanity, prior, of
course, to all question of the ingenuity of arguments, the amount of
facts, or the elegance of rhetoric.  So intimate is this alliance of
mind and heart, that talent uniformly sinks with character.  The bias
of errors of principle carries away men into perilous courses, as
soon as their will does not control their passion or talent.  Hence
the extraordinary blunders, and final wrong head, into which men
spoiled by ambition usually fall.  Hence the remedy for all blunders,
the cure of blindness, the cure of crime, is love.  "As much love, so
much mind," said the Latin proverb.  The superiority that has no
superior; the redeemer and instructor of souls, as it is their primal
essence, is love.
        The moral must be the measure of health.  If your eye is on the
eternal, your intellect will grow, and your opinions and actions will
have a beauty which no learning or combined advantages of other men
can rival.  The moment of your loss of faith, and acceptance of the
lucrative standard, will be marked in the pause, or solstice of
genius, the sequent retrogression, and the inevitable loss of
attraction to other minds.  The vulgar are sensible of the change in
you, and of your descent, though they clap you on the back, and
congratulate you on your increased common sense.
        Our recent culture has been in natural science.  We have
learned the manners of the sun and of the moon, of the rivers and the
rains, of the mineral and elemental kingdoms, of plants and animals.
Man has learned to weigh the sun, and its weight neither loses nor
gains.  The path of a star, the moment of an eclipse, can be
determined to the fraction of a second.  Well, to him the book of
history, the book of love, the lures of passion, and the commandments
of duty are opened: and the next lesson taught, is, the continuation
of the inflexible law of matter into the subtile kingdom of will, and
of thought; that, if, in sidereal ages, gravity and projection keep
their craft, and the ball never loses its way in its wild path
through space, -- a secreter gravitation, a secreter projection, rule
not less tyrannically in human history, and keep the balance of power
from age to age unbroken.  For, though the new element of freedom and
an individual has been admitted, yet the primordial atoms are
prefigured and predetermined to moral issues, are in search of
justice, and ultimate right is done.  Religion or worship is the
attitude of those who see this unity, intimacy, and sincerity; who
see that, against all appearances, the nature of things works for
truth and right forever.
        'Tis a short sight to limit our faith in laws to those of
gravity, of chemistry, of botany, and so forth.  Those laws do not
stop where our eyes lose them, but push the same geometry and
chemistry up into the invisible plane of social and rational life, so
that, look where we will, in a boy's game, or in the strifes of
races, a perfect reaction, a perpetual judgment keeps watch and ward.
And this appears in a class of facts which concerns all men, within
and above their creeds.
