
        Shallow men believe in luck, believe in circumstances: It was
somebody's name, or he happened to be there at the time, or, it was
so then, and another day it would have been otherwise.  Strong men
believe in cause and effect.  The man was born to do it, and his
father was born to be the father of him and of this deed, and, by
looking narrowly, you shall see there was no luck in the matter, but
it was all a problem in arithmetic, or an experiment in chemistry.
The curve of the flight of the moth is preordained, and all things go
by number, rule, and weight.
        Skepticism is unbelief in cause and effect.  A man does not
see, that, as he eats, so he thinks: as he deals, so he is, and so he
appears; he does not see, that his son is the son of his thoughts and
of his actions; that fortunes are not exceptions but fruits; that
relation and connection are not somewhere and sometimes, but
everywhere and always; no miscellany, no exemption, no anomaly, --
but method, and an even web; and what comes out, that was put in.  As
we are, so we do; and as we do, so is it done to us; we are the
builders of our fortunes; cant and lying and the attempt to secure a
good which does not belong to us, are, once for all, balked and vain.
But, in the human mind, this tie of fate is made alive.  The law is
the basis of the human mind.  In us, it is inspiration; out there in
Nature, we see its fatal strength.  We call it the moral sentiment.
        We owe to the Hindoo Scriptures a definition of Law, which
compares well with any in our Western books.  "Law it is, which is
without name, or color, or hands, or feet; which is smallest of the
least, and largest of the large; all, and knowing all things; which
hears without ears, sees without eyes, moves without feet, and seizes
without hands."
        If any reader tax me with using vague and traditional phrases,
let me suggest to him, by a few examples, what kind of a trust this
is, and how real.  Let me show him that the dice are loaded; that the
colors are fast, because they are the native colors of the fleece;
that the globe is a battery, because every atom is a magnet; and that
the police and sincerity of the Universe are secured by God's
delegating his divinity to every particle; that there is no room for
hypocrisy, no margin for choice.
        The countryman leaving his native village, for the first time,
and going abroad, finds all his habits broken up.  In a new nation
and language, his sect, as Quaker, or Lutheran, is lost.  What! it is
not then necessary to the order and existence of society?  He misses
this, and the commanding eye of his neighborhood, which held him to
decorum.  This is the peril of New York, of New Orleans, of London,
of Paris, to young men.  But after a little experience, he makes the
discovery that there are no large cities, -- none large enough to
hide in; that the censors of action are as numerous and as near in
Paris, as in Littleton or Portland; that the gossip is as prompt and
vengeful.  There is no concealment, and, for each offence, a several
vengeance; that, reaction, or _nothing for nothing_, or, _things are
as broad as they are long_, is not a rule for Littleton or Portland,
but for the Universe.
        We cannot spare the coarsest muniment of virtue.  We are
disgusted by gossip; yet it is of importance to keep the angels in
their proprieties.  The smallest fly will draw blood, and gossip is a
weapon impossible to exclude from the privatest, highest, selectest.
Nature created a police of many ranks.  God has delegated himself to
a million deputies.  From these low external penalties, the scale
ascends.  Next come the resentments, the fears, which injustice calls
out; then, the false relations in which the offender is put to other
men; and the reaction of his fault on himself, in the solitude and
devastation of his mind.
        You cannot hide any secret.  If the artist succor his flagging
spirits by opium or wine, his work will characterize itself as the
effect of opium or wine.  If you make a picture or a statue, it sets
the beholder in that state of mind you had, when you made it.  If you
spend for show, on building, or gardening, or on pictures, or on
equipages, it will so appear.  We are all physiognomists and
penetrators of character, and things themselves are detective.  If
you follow the suburban fashion in building a sumptuous-looking house
for a little money, it will appear to all eyes as a cheap dear house.
There is no privacy that cannot be penetrated.  No secret can be kept
in the civilized world.  Society is a masked ball, where every one
hides his real character, and reveals it by hiding.  If a man wish to
conceal anything he carries, those whom he meets know that he
conceals somewhat, and usually know what he conceals.  Is it
otherwise if there be some belief or some purpose he would bury in
his breast?  'Tis as hard to hide as fire.  He is a strong man who
can hold down his opinion.  A man cannot utter two or three
sentences, without disclosing to intelligent ears precisely where he
stands in life and thought, namely, whether in the kingdom of the
senses and the understanding, or, in that of ideas and imagination,
in the realm of intuitions and duty.  People seem not to see that
their opinion of the world is also a confession of character.  We can
only see what we are, and if we misbehave we suspect others.  The
fame of Shakspeare or of Voltaire, of Thomas a Kempis, or of
Bonaparte, characterizes those who give it.  As gas-light is found to
be the best nocturnal police, so the universe protects itself by
pitiless publicity.
        Each must be armed -- not necessarily with musket and pike.
Happy, if, seeing these, he can feel that he has better muskets and
pikes in his energy and constancy.  To every creature is his own
weapon, however skilfully concealed from himself, a good while.  His
work is sword and shield.  Let him accuse none, let him injure none.
The way to mend the bad world, is to create the right world.  Here is
a low political economy plotting to cut the throat of foreign
competition, and establish our own; -- excluding others by force, or
making war on them; or, by cunning tariffs, giving preference to
worse wares of ours.  But the real and lasting victories are those of
peace, and not of war.  The way to conquer the foreign artisan, is,
not to kill him, but to beat his work.  And the Crystal Palaces and
World Fairs, with their committees and prizes on all kinds of
industry, are the result of this feeling.  The American workman who
strikes ten blows with his hammer, whilst the foreign workman only
strikes one, is as really vanquishing that foreigner, as if the blows
were aimed at and told on his person.  I look on that man as happy,
who, when there is question of success, looks into his work for a
reply, not into the market, not into opinion, not into patronage.  In
every variety of human employment, in the mechanical and in the fine
arts, in navigation, in farming, in legislating, there are among the
numbers who do their task perfunctorily, as we say, or just to pass,
and as badly as they dare, -- there are the working-men, on whom the
burden of the business falls, -- those who love work, and love to see
it rightly done, who finish their task for its own sake; and the
state and the world is happy, that has the most of such finishers.
The world will always do justice at last to such finishers: it cannot
otherwise.  He who has acquired the ability, may wait securely the
occasion of making it felt and appreciated, and know that it will not
loiter.  Men talk as if victory were something fortunate.  Work is
victory.  Wherever work is done, victory is obtained.  There is no
chance, and no blanks.  You want but one verdict: if you have your
own, you are secure of the rest.  And yet, if witnesses are wanted,
witnesses are near.  There was never a man born so wise or good, but
one or more companions came into the world with him, who delight in
his faculty, and report it.  I cannot see without awe, that no man
thinks alone, and no man acts alone, but the divine assessors who
came up with him into life, -- now under one disguise, now under
another, -- like a police in citizens' clothes, walk with him, step
for step, through all the kingdom of time.
