
        This reaction, this sincerity is the property of all things.
To make our word or act sublime, we must make it real.  It is our
system that counts, not the single word or unsupported action.  Use
what language you will, you can never say anything but what you are.
What I am, and what I think, is conveyed to you, in spite of my
efforts to hold it back.  What I am has been secretly conveyed from
me to another, whilst I was vainly making up my mind to tell him it.
He has heard from me what I never spoke.
        As men get on in life, they acquire a love for sincerity, and
somewhat less solicitude to be lulled or amused.  In the progress of
the character, there is an increasing faith in the moral sentiment,
and a decreasing faith in propositions.  Young people admire talents,
and particular excellences.  As we grow older, we value total powers
and effects, as the spirit, or quality of the man.  We have another
sight, and a new standard; an insight which disregards what is done
_for_ the eye, and pierces to the doer; an ear which hears not what
men say, but hears what they do not say.
        There was a wise, devout man who is called, in the Catholic
Church, St. Philip Neri, of whom many anecdotes touching his
discernment and benevolence are told at Naples and Rome.  Among the
nuns in a convent not far from Rome, one had appeared, who laid claim
to certain rare gifts of inspiration and prophecy, and the abbess
advised the Holy Father, at Rome, of the wonderful powers shown by
her novice.  The Pope did not well know what to make of these new
claims, and Philip coming in from a journey, one day, he consulted
him.  Philip undertook to visit the nun, and ascertain her character.
He threw himself on his mule, all travel-soiled as he was, and
hastened through the mud and mire to the distant convent.  He told
the abbess the wishes of his Holiness, and begged her to summon the
nun without delay.  The nun was sent for, and, as soon as she came
into the apartment, Philip stretched out his leg all bespattered with
mud, and desired her to draw off his boots.  The young nun, who had
become the object of much attention and respect, drew back with
anger, and refused the office: Philip ran out of doors, mounted his
mule, and returned instantly to the Pope; "Give yourself no
uneasiness, Holy Father, any longer: here is no miracle, for here is
no humility."
        We need not much mind what people please to say, but what they
must say; what their natures say, though their busy, artful, Yankee
understandings try to hold back, and choke that word, and to
articulate something different.  If we will sit quietly, -- what they
ought to say is said, with their will, or against their will.  We do
not care for you, let us pretend what we will: -- we are always
looking through you to the dim dictator behind you.  Whilst your
habit or whim chatters, we civilly and impatiently wait until that
wise superior shall speak again.  Even children are not deceived by
the false reasons which their parents give in answer to their
questions, whether touching natural facts, or religion, or persons.
When the parent, instead of thinking how it really is, puts them off
with a traditional or a hypocritical answer, the children perceive
that it is traditional or hypocritical.  To a sound constitution the
defect of another is at once manifest: and the marks of it are only
concealed from us by our own dislocation.  An anatomical observer
remarks, that the sympathies of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis, tell
at last on the face, and on all its features.  Not only does our
beauty waste, but it leaves word how it went to waste.  Physiognomy
and phrenology are not new sciences, but declarations of the soul
that it is aware of certain new sources of information.  And now
sciences of broader scope are starting up behind these.  And so for
ourselves, it is really of little importance what blunders in
statement we make, so only we make no wilful departures from the
truth.  How a man's truth comes to mind, long after we have forgotten
all his words!  How it comes to us in silent hours, that truth is our
only armor in all passages of life and death!  Wit is cheap, and
anger is cheap; but if you cannot argue or explain yourself to the
other party, cleave to the truth against me, against thee, and you
gain a station from which you cannot be dislodged.  The other party
will forget the words that you spoke, but the part you took continues
to plead for you.
        Why should I hasten to solve every riddle which life offers me?
I am well assured that the Questioner, who brings me so many
problems, will bring the answers also in due time.  Very rich, very
potent, very cheerful Giver that he is, he shall have it all his own
way, for me.  Why should I give up my thought, because I cannot
answer an objection to it?  Consider only, whether it remains in my
life the same it was.  That only which we have within, can we see
without.  If we meet no gods, it is because we harbor none.  If there
is grandeur in you, you will find grandeur in porters and sweeps.  He
only is rightly immortal, to whom all things are immortal.  I have
read somewhere, that none is accomplished, so long as any are
incomplete; that the happiness of one cannot consist with the misery
of any other.
        The Buddhists say, "No seed will die:" every seed will grow.
Where is the service which can escape its remuneration?  What is
vulgar, and the essence of all vulgarity, but the avarice of reward?
'Tis the difference of artisan and artist, of talent and genius, of
sinner and saint.  The man whose eyes are nailed not on the nature of
his act, but on the wages, whether it be money, or office, or fame,
-- is almost equally low.  He is great, whose eyes are opened to see
that the reward of actions cannot be escaped, because he is
transformed into his action, and taketh its nature, which bears its
own fruit, like every other tree.  A great man cannot be hindered of
the effect of his act, because it is immediate.  The genius of life
is friendly to the noble, and in the dark brings them friends from
far.  Fear God, and where you go, men shall think they walk in
hallowed cathedrals.
        And so I look on those sentiments which make the glory of the
human being, love, humility, faith, as being also the intimacy of
Divinity in the atoms; and, that, as soon as the man is right,
assurances and previsions emanate from the interior of his body and
his mind; as, when flowers reach their ripeness, incense exhales from
them, and, as a beautiful atmosphere is generated from the planet by
the averaged emanations from all its rocks and soils.
        Thus man is made equal to every event.  He can face danger for
the right.  A poor, tender, painful body, he can run into flame or
bullets or pestilence, with duty for his guide.  He feels the
insurance of a just employment.  I am not afraid of accident, as long
as I am in my place.  It is strange that superior persons should not
feel that they have some better resistance against cholera, than
avoiding green peas and salads.  Life is hardly respectable, -- is
it? if it has no generous, guaranteeing task, no duties or
affections, that constitute a necessity of existing.  Every man's
task is his life-preserver.  The conviction that his work is dear to
God and cannot be spared, defends him.  The lightning-rod that
disarms the cloud of its threat is his body in its duty.  A high aim
reacts on the means, on the days, on the organs of the body.  A high
aim is curative, as well as arnica.  "Napoleon," says Goethe,
"visited those sick of the plague, in order to prove that the man who
could vanquish fear, could vanquish the plague also; and he was
right.  'Tis incredible what force the will has in such cases: it
penetrates the body, and puts it in a state of activity, which repels
all hurtful influences; whilst fear invites them."
