
        It is related of William of Orange, that, whilst he was
besieging a town on the continent, a gentleman sent to him on public
business came to his camp, and, learning that the King was before the
walls, he ventured to go where he was.  He found him directing the
operation of his gunners, and, having explained his errand, and
received his answer, the King said, "Do you not know, sir, that every
moment you spend here is at the risk of your life?" "I run no more
risk," replied the gentleman, "than your Majesty." "Yes," said the
King, "but my duty brings me here, and yours does not." In a few
minutes, a cannon-ball fell on the spot, and the gentleman was
killed.
        Thus can the faithful student reverse all the warnings of his
early instinct, under the guidance of a deeper instinct.  He learns
to welcome misfortune, learns that adversity is the prosperity of the
great.  He learns the greatness of humility.  He shall work in the
dark, work against failure, pain, and ill-will.  If he is insulted,
he can be insulted; all his affair is not to insult.  Hafiz writes,
        At the last day, men shall wear
        On their heads the dust,
        As ensign and as ornament
        Of their lowly trust.
 
        The moral equalizes all; enriches, empowers all.  It is the
coin which buys all, and which all find in their pocket.  Under the
whip of the driver, the slave shall feel his equality with saints and
heroes.  In the greatest destitution and calamity, it surprises man
with a feeling of elasticity which makes nothing of loss.
        I recall some traits of a remarkable person whose life and
discourse betrayed many inspirations of this sentiment.  Benedict was
always great in the present time.  He had hoarded nothing from the
past, neither in his cabinets, neither in his memory.  He had no
designs on the future, neither for what he should do to men, nor for
what men should do for him.  He said, `I am never beaten until I know
that I am beaten.  I meet powerful brutal people to whom I have no
skill to reply.  They think they have defeated me.  It is so
published in society, in the journals; I am defeated in this fashion,
in all men's sight, perhaps on a dozen different lines.  My leger may
show that I am in debt, cannot yet make my ends meet, and vanquish
the enemy so.  My race may not be prospering: we are sick, ugly,
obscure, unpopular.  My children may be worsted.  I seem to fail in
my friends and clients, too.  That is to say, in all the encounters
that have yet chanced, I have not been weaponed for that particular
occasion, and have been historically beaten; and yet, I know, all the
time, that I have never been beaten; have never yet fought, shall
certainly fight, when my hour comes, and shall beat.'  "A man," says
the Vishnu Sarma, "who having well compared his own strength or
weakness with that of others, after all doth not know the difference,
is easily overcome by his enemies."
        `I spent,' he said, `ten months in the country.  Thick-starred
Orion was my only companion.  Wherever a squirrel or a bee can go
with security, I can go.  I ate whatever was set before me; I touched
ivy and dogwood.  When I went abroad, I kept company with every man
on the road, for I knew that my evil and my good did not come from
these, but from the Spirit, whose servant I was.  For I could not
stoop to be a circumstance, as they did, who put their life into
their fortune and their company.  I would not degrade myself by
casting about in my memory for a thought, nor by waiting for one.  If
the thought come, I would give it entertainment.  It should, as it
ought, go into my hands and feet; but if it come not spontaneously,
it comes not rightly at all.  If it can spare me, I am sure I can
spare it.  It shall be the same with my friends.  I will never woo
the loveliest.  I will not ask any friendship or favor.  When I come
to my own, we shall both know it.  Nothing will be to be asked or to
be granted.' Benedict went out to seek his friend, and met him on the
way; but he expressed no surprise at any coincidences.  On the other
hand, if he called at the door of his friend, and he was not at home,
he did not go again; concluding that he had misinterpreted the
intimations.
        He had the whim not to make an apology to the same individual
whom he had wronged.  For this, he said, was a piece of personal
vanity; but he would correct his conduct in that respect in which he
had faulted, to the next person he should meet.  Thus, he said,
universal justice was satisfied.
        Mira came to ask what she should do with the poor Genesee woman
who had hired herself to work for her, at a shilling a day, and, now
sickening, was like to be bedridden on her hands.  Should she keep
her, or should she dismiss her?  But Benedict said, `Why ask?  One
thing will clear itself as the thing to be done, and not another,
when the hour comes.  Is it a question, whether to put her into the
street?  Just as much whether to thrust the little Jenny on your arm
into the street.  The milk and meal you give the beggar, will fatten
Jenny.  Thrust the woman out, and you thrust your babe out of doors,
whether it so seem to you or not.'
        In the Shakers, so called, I find one piece of belief, in the
doctrine which they faithfully hold, that encourages them to open
their doors to every wayfaring man who proposes to come among them;
for, they say, the Spirit will presently manifest to the man himself,
and to the society, what manner of person he is, and whether he
belongs among them.  They do not receive him, they do not reject him.
And not in vain have they worn their clay coat, and drudged in their
fields, and shuffled in their Bruin dance, from year to year, if they
have truly learned thus much wisdom.
