
        Honor him whose life is perpetual victory; him, who, by
sympathy with the invisible and real, finds support in labor, instead
of praise; who does not shine, and would rather not.  With eyes open,
he makes the choice of virtue, which outrages the virtuous; of
religion, which churches stop their discords to burn and exterminate;
for the highest virtue is always against the law.
        Miracle comes to the miraculous, not to the arithmetician.
Talent and success interest me but moderately.  The great class, they
who affect our imagination, the men who could not make their hands
meet around their objects, the rapt, the lost, the fools of ideas, --
they suggest what they cannot execute.  They speak to the ages, and
are heard from afar.  The Spirit does not love cripples and
malformations.  If there ever was a good man, be certain, there was
another, and will be more.
        And so in relation to that future hour, that spectre clothed
with beauty at our curtain by night, at our table by day, -- the
apprehension, the assurance of a coming change.  The race of mankind
have always offered at least this implied thanks for the gift of
existence, -- namely, the terror of its being taken away; the
insatiable curiosity and appetite for its continuation.  The whole
revelation that is vouchsafed us, is, the gentle trust, which, in our
experience we find, will cover also with flowers the slopes of this
chasm.
        Of immortality, the soul, when well employed, is incurious.  It
is so well, that it is sure it will be well.  It asks no questions of
the Supreme Power.  The son of Antiochus asked his father, when he
would join battle?  "Dost thou fear," replied the King, "that thou
only in all the army wilt not hear the trumpet?" 'Tis a higher thing
to confide, that, if it is best we should live, we shall live, --
'tis higher to have this conviction, than to have the lease of
indefinite centuries and millenniums and aeons.  Higher than the
question of our duration is the question of our deserving.
Immortality will come to such as are fit for it, and he who would be
a great soul in future, must be a great soul now.  It is a doctrine
too great to rest on any legend, that is, on any man's experience but
our own.  It must be proved, if at all, from our own activity and
designs, which imply an interminable future for their play.
        What is called religion effeminates and demoralizes.  Such as
you are, the gods themselves could not help you.  Men are too often
unfit to live, from their obvious inequality to their own
necessities, or, they suffer from politics, or bad neighbors, or from
sickness, and they would gladly know that they were to be dismissed
from the duties of life.  But the wise instinct asks, `How will death
help them?' These are not dismissed when they die.  You shall not
wish for death out of pusillanimity.  The weight of the Universe is
pressed down on the shoulders of each moral agent to hold him to his
task.  The only path of escape known in all the worlds of God is
performance.  You must do your work, before you shall be released.
And as far as it is a question of fact respecting the government of
the Universe, Marcus Antoninus summed the whole in a word, "It is
pleasant to die, if there be gods; and sad to live, if there be
none."
        And so I think that the last lesson of life, the choral song
which rises from all elements and all angels, is, a voluntary
obedience, a necessitated freedom.  Man is made of the same atoms as
the world is, he shares the same impressions, predispositions, and
destiny.  When his mind is illuminated, when his heart is kind, he
throws himself joyfully into the sublime order, and does, with
knowledge, what the stones do by structure.
        The religion which is to guide and fulfil the present and
coming ages, whatever else it be, must be intellectual.  The
scientific mind must have a faith which is science.  "There are two
things," said Mahomet, "which I abhor, the learned in his
infidelities, and the fool in his devotions." Our times are impatient
of both, and specially of the last.  Let us have nothing now which is
not its own evidence.  There is surely enough for the heart and
imagination in the religion itself.  Let us not be pestered with
assertions and half-truths, with emotions and snuffle.
        There will be a new church founded on moral science, at first
cold and naked, a babe in a manger again, the algebra and mathematics
of ethical law, the church of men to come, without shawms, or
psaltery, or sackbut; but it will have heaven and earth for its beams
and rafters; science for symbol and illustration; it will fast enough
gather beauty, music, picture, poetry.  Was never stoicism so stern
and exigent as this shall be.  It shall send man home to his central
solitude, shame these social, supplicating manners, and make him know
that much of the time he must have himself to his friend.  He shall
expect no cooperation, he shall walk with no companion.  The nameless
Thought, the nameless Power, the superpersonal Heart, -- he shall
repose alone on that.  He needs only his own verdict.  No good fame
can help, no bad fame can hurt him.  The Laws are his consolers, the
good Laws themselves are alive, they know if he have kept them, they
animate him with the leading of great duty, and an endless horizon.
Honor and fortune exist to him who always recognizes the neighborhood
of the great, always feels himself in the presence of high causes.
