
        In front of these sinister facts, the first lesson of history
is the good of evil.  Good is a good doctor, but Bad is sometimes a
better.  'Tis the oppressions of William the Norman, savage
forest-laws, and crushing despotism, that made possible the
inspirations of _Magna Charta_ under John. Edward I. wanted money,
armies, castles, and as much as he could get.  It was necessary to
call the people together by shorter, swifter ways, -- and the House
of Commons arose.  To obtain subsidies, he paid in privileges.  In
the twenty-fourth year of his reign, he decreed, "that no tax should
be levied without consent of Lords and Commons;" -- which is the
basis of the English Constitution.  Plutarch affirms that the cruel
wars which followed the march of Alexander, introduced the civility,
language, and arts of Greece into the savage East; introduced
marriage; built seventy cities; and united hostile nations under one
government.  The barbarians who broke up the Roman empire did not
arrive a day too soon.  Schiller says, the Thirty Years' War made
Germany a nation.  Rough, selfish despots serve men immensely, as
Henry VIII.  in the contest with the Pope; as the infatuations no
less than the wisdom of Cromwell; as the ferocity of the Russian
czars; as the fanaticism of the French regicides of 1789.  The frost
which kills the harvest of a year, saves the harvests of a century,
by destroying the weevil or the locust.  Wars, fires, plagues, break
up immovable routine, clear the ground of rotten races and dens of
distemper, and open a fair field to new men.  There is a tendency in
things to right themselves, and the war or revolution or bankruptcy
that shatters a rotten system, allows things to take a new and
natural order.  The sharpest evils are bent into that periodicity
which makes the errors of planets, and the fevers and distempers of
men, self-limiting.  Nature is upheld by antagonism.  Passions,
resistance, danger, are educators.  We acquire the strength we have
overcome.  Without war, no soldier; without enemies, no hero.  The
sun were insipid, if the universe were not opaque.  And the glory of
character is in affronting the horrors of depravity, to draw thence
new nobilities of power: as Art lives and thrills in new use and
combining of contrasts, and mining into the dark evermore for blacker
pits of night.  What would painter do, or what would poet or saint,
but for crucifixions and hells?  And evermore in the world is this
marvellous balance of beauty and disgust, magnificence and rats.  Not
Antoninus, but a poor washer-woman said, "The more trouble, the more
lion; that's my principle."
        I do not think very respectfully of the designs or the doings
of the people who went to California, in 1849.  It was a rush and a
scramble of needy adventurers, and, in the western country, a general
jail-delivery of all the rowdies of the rivers.  Some of them went
with honest purposes, some with very bad ones, and all of them with
the very commonplace wish to find a short way to wealth.  But Nature
watches over all, and turns this malfaisance to good.  California
gets peopled and subdued, -- civilized in this immoral way, -- and,
on this fiction, a real prosperity is rooted and grown.  'Tis a
decoy-duck; 'tis tubs thrown to amuse the whale: but real ducks, and
whales that yield oil, are caught.  And, out of Sabine rapes, and out
of robbers' forays, real Romes and their heroisms come in fulness of
time.
        In America, the geography is sublime, but the men are not: the
inventions are excellent, but the inventors one is sometimes ashamed
of.  The agencies by which events so grand as the opening of
California, of Texas, of Oregon, and the junction of the two oceans,
are effected, are paltry, -- coarse selfishness, fraud, and
conspiracy: and most of the great results of history are brought
about by discreditable means.
        The benefaction derived in Illinois, and the great West, from
railroads is inestimable, and vastly exceeding any intentional
philanthropy on record.  What is the benefit done by a good King
Alfred, or by a Howard, or Pestalozzi, or Elizabeth Fry, or Florence
Nightingale, or any lover, less or larger, compared with the
involuntary blessing wrought on nations by the selfish capitalists
who built the Illinois, Michigan, and the network of the Mississippi
valley roads, which have evoked not only all the wealth of the soil,
but the energy of millions of men.  'Tis a sentence of ancient
wisdom, "that God hangs the greatest weights on the smallest wires."
        What happens thus to nations, befalls every day in private
houses.  When the friends of a gentleman brought to his notice the
follies of his sons, with many hints of their danger, he replied,
that he knew so much mischief when he was a boy, and had turned out
on the whole so successfully, that he was not alarmed by the
dissipation of boys; 'twas dangerous water, but, he thought, they
would soon touch bottom, and then swim to the top.  This is bold
practice, and there are many failures to a good escape.  Yet one
would say, that a good understanding would suffice as well as moral
sensibility to keep one erect; the gratifications of the passions are
so quickly seen to be damaging, and, -- what men like least, --
seriously lowering them in social rank.  Then all talent sinks with
character.
        _"Croyez moi, l'erreur aussi a son merite,"_ said Voltaire.  We
see those who surmount, by dint of some egotism or infatuation,
obstacles from which the prudent recoil.  The right partisan is a
heady narrow man, who, because he does not see many things, sees some
one thing with heat and exaggeration, and, if he falls among other
narrow men, or on objects which have a brief importance, as some
trade or politics of the hour, he prefers it to the universe, and
seems inspired, and a godsend to those who wish to magnify the
matter, and carry a point.  Better, certainly, if we could secure the
strength and fire which rude, passionate men bring into society,
quite clear of their vices.  But who dares draw out the linchpin from
the wagon-wheel?  'Tis so manifest, that there is no moral deformity,
but is a good passion out of place; that there is no man who is not
indebted to his foibles; that, according to the old oracle, "the
Furies are the bonds of men;" that the poisons are our principal
medicines, which kill the disease, and save the life.  In the high
prophetic phrase, _He causes the wrath of man to praise him_, and
twists and wrenches our evil to our good.  Shakspeare wrote, --
        "'Tis said, best men are moulded of their faults;"
        and great educators and lawgivers, and especially generals, and
leaders of colonies, mainly rely on this stuff, and esteem men of
irregular and passional force the best timber.  A man of sense and
energy, the late head of the Farm School in Boston harbor, said to
me, "I want none of your good boys, -- give me the bad ones." And
this is the reason, I suppose, why, as soon as the children are good,
the mothers are scared, and think they are going to die.  Mirabeau
said, "There are none but men of strong passions capable of going to
greatness; none but such capable of meriting the public gratitude."
Passion, though a bad regulator, is a powerful spring.  Any absorbing
passion has the effect to deliver from the little coils and cares of
every day: 'tis the heat which sets our human atoms spinning,
overcomes the friction of crossing thresholds, and first addresses in
society, and gives us a good start and speed, easy to continue, when
once it is begun.  In short, there is no man who is not at some time
indebted to his vices, as no plant that is not fed from manures.  We
only insist that the man meliorate, and that the plant grow upward,
and convert the base into the better nature.
