
        The wise workman will not regret the poverty or the solitude
which brought out his working talents.  The youth is charmed with the
fine air and accomplishments of the children of fortune.  But all
great men come out of the middle classes.  'Tis better for the head;
'tis better for the heart.  Marcus Antoninus says, that Fronto told
him, "that the so-called high-born are for the most part heartless;"
whilst nothing is so indicative of deepest culture as a tender
consideration of the ignorant.  Charles James Fox said of England,
"The history of this country proves, that we are not to expect from
men in affluent circumstances the vigilance, energy, and exertion
without which the House of Commons would lose its greatest force and
weight.  Human nature is prone to indulgence, and the most
meritorious public services have always been performed by persons in
a condition of life removed from opulence." And yet what we ask
daily, is to be conventional.  Supply, most kind gods! this defect in
my address, in my form, in my fortunes, which puts me a little out of
the ring: supply it, and let me be like the rest whom I admire, and
on good terms with them.  But the wise gods say, No, we have better
things for thee.  By humiliations, by defeats, by loss of sympathy,
by gulfs of disparity, learn a wider truth and humanity than that of
a fine gentleman.  A Fifth-Avenue landlord, a West-End householder,
is not the highest style of man: and, though good hearts and sound
minds are of no condition, yet he who is to be wise for many, must
not be protected.  He must know the huts where poor men lie, and the
chores which poor men do.  The first-class minds, Aesop, Socrates,
Cervantes, Shakspeare, Franklin, had the poor man's feeling and
mortification.  A rich man was never insulted in his life: but this
man must be stung.  A rich man was never in danger from cold, or
hunger, or war, or ruffians, and you can see he was not, from the
moderation of his ideas.  'Tis a fatal disadvantage to be cockered,
and to eat too much cake.  What tests of manhood could he stand?
Take him out of his protections.  He is a good book-keeper; or he is
a shrewd adviser in the insurance office: perhaps he could pass a
college examination, and take his degrees: perhaps he can give wise
counsel in a court of law.  Now plant him down among farmers,
firemen, Indians, and emigrants.  Set a dog on him: set a highwayman
on him: try him with a course of mobs: send him to Kansas, to Pike's
Peak, to Oregon: and, if he have true faculty, this may be the
element he wants, and he will come out of it with broader wisdom and
manly power.  Aesop, Saadi, Cervantes, Regnard, have been taken by
corsairs, left for dead, sold for slaves, and know the realities of
human life.
        Bad times have a scientific value.  These are occasions a good
learner would not miss.  As we go gladly to Faneuil Hall, to be
played upon by the stormy winds and strong fingers of enraged
patriotism, so is a fanatical persecution, civil war, national
bankruptcy, or revolution, more rich in the central tones than
languid years of prosperity.  What had been, ever since our memory,
solid continent, yawns apart, and discloses its composition and
genesis.  We learn geology the morning after the earthquake, on
ghastly diagrams of cloven mountains, upheaved plains, and the dry
bed of the sea.
        In our life and culture, everything is worked up, and comes in
use, -- passion, war, revolt, bankruptcy, and not less, folly and
blunders, insult, ennui, and bad company.  Nature is a rag-merchant,
who works up every shred and ort and end into new creations; like a
good chemist, whom I found, the other day, in his laboratory,
converting his old shirts into pure white sugar.  Life is a boundless
privilege, and when you pay for your ticket, and get into the car,
you have no guess what good company you shall find there.  You buy
much that is not rendered in the bill.  Men achieve a certain
greatness unawares, when working to another aim.
        If now in this connection of discourse, we should venture on
laying down the first obvious rules of life, I will not here repeat
the first rule of economy, already propounded once and again, that
every man shall maintain himself, -- but I will say, get health.  No
labor, pains, temperance, poverty, nor exercise, that can gain it,
must be grudged.  For sickness is a cannibal which eats up all the
life and youth it can lay hold of, and absorbs its own sons and
daughters.  I figure it as a pale, wailing, distracted phantom,
absolutely selfish, heedless of what is good and great, attentive to
its sensations, losing its soul, and afflicting other souls with
meanness and mopings, and with ministration to its voracity of
trifles.  Dr. Johnson said severely, "Every man is a rascal as soon
as he is sick." Drop the cant, and treat it sanely.  In dealing with
the drunken, we do not affect to be drunk.  We must treat the sick
with the same firmness, giving them, of course, every aid, -- but
withholding ourselves.  I once asked a clergyman in a retired town,
who were his companions? what men of ability he saw? he replied, that
he spent his time with the sick and the dying.  I said, he seemed to
me to need quite other company, and all the more that he had this:
for if people were sick and dying to any purpose, we would leave all
and go to them, but, as far as I had observed, they were as frivolous
as the rest, and sometimes much more frivolous.  Let us engage our
companions not to spare us.  I knew a wise woman who said to her
friends, "When I am old, rule me." And the best part of health is
fine disposition.  It is more essential than talent, even in the
works of talent.  Nothing will supply the want of sunshine to
peaches, and, to make knowledge valuable, you must have the
cheerfulness of wisdom.  Whenever you are sincerely pleased, you are
nourished.  The joy of the spirit indicates its strength.  All
healthy things are sweet-tempered.  Genius works in sport, and
goodness smiles to the last; and, for the reason, that whoever sees
the law which distributes things, does not despond, but is animated
to great desires and endeavors.  He who desponds betrays that he has
not seen it.
        'Tis a Dutch proverb, that "paint costs nothing," such are its
preserving qualities in damp climates.  Well, sunshine costs less,
yet is finer pigment.  And so of cheerfulness, or a good temper, the
more it is spent, the more of it remains.  The latent heat of an
ounce of wood or stone is inexhaustible.  You may rub the same chip
of pine to the point of kindling, a hundred times; and the power of
happiness of any soul is not to be computed or drained.  It is
observed that a depression of spirits develops the germs of a plague
in individuals and nations.
        It is an old commendation of right behavior, "_Aliis laetus, --
sapiens sibi_," which our English proverb translates, "Be merry _and_
wise." I know how easy it is to men of the world to look grave and
sneer at your sanguine youth, and its glittering dreams.  But I find
the gayest castles in the air that were ever piled, far better for
comfort and for use, than the dungeons in the air that are daily dug
and caverned out by grumbling, discontented people.  I know those
miserable fellows, and I hate them, who see a black star always
riding through the light and colored clouds in the sky overhead:
waves of light pass over and hide it for a moment, but the black star
keeps fast in the zenith.  But power dwells with cheerfulness; hope
puts us in a working mood, whilst despair is no muse, and untunes the
active powers.  A man should make life and Nature happier to us, or
he had better never been born.  When the political economist reckons
up the unproductive classes, he should put at the head this class of
pitiers of themselves, cravers of sympathy, bewailing imaginary
disasters.  An old French verse runs, in my translation: --
        Some of your griefs you have cured,
                And the sharpest you still have survived;
        But what torments of pain you endured
                From evils that never arrived!
        There are three wants which never can be satisfied: that of the
rich, who wants something more; that of the sick, who wants something
different; and that of the traveller, who says, `Anywhere but here.'
The Turkish cadi said to Layard, "After the fashion of thy people,
thou hast wandered from one place to another, until thou art happy
and content in none." My countrymen are not less infatuated with the
_rococo_ toy of Italy.  All America seems on the point of embarking
for Europe.  But we shall not always traverse seas and lands with
light purposes, and for pleasure, as we say.  One day we shall cast
out the passion for Europe, by the passion for America.  Culture will
give gravity and domestic rest to those who now travel only as not
knowing how else to spend money.  Already, who provoke pity like that
excellent family party just arriving in their well-appointed
carriage, as far from home and any honest end as ever?  Each nation
has asked successively, `What are they here for?' until at last the
party are shamefaced, and anticipate the question at the gates of
each town.
