
        Genial manners are good, and power of accommodation to any
circumstance, but the high prize of life, the crowning fortune of a
man is to be born with a bias to some pursuit, which finds him in
employment and happiness, -- whether it be to make baskets, or
broadswords, or canals, or statutes, or songs.  I doubt not this was
the meaning of Socrates, when he pronounced artists the only truly
wise, as being actually, not apparently so.
        In childhood, we fancied ourselves walled in by the horizon, as
by a glass bell, and doubted not, by distant travel, we should reach
the baths of the descending sun and stars.  On experiment, the
horizon flies before us, and leaves us on an endless common,
sheltered by no glass bell.  Yet 'tis strange how tenaciously we
cling to that bell-astronomy, of a protecting domestic horizon.  I
find the same illusion in the search after happiness, which I
observe, every summer, recommenced in this neighborhood, soon after
the pairing of the birds.  The young people do not like the town, do
not like the sea-shore, they will go inland; find a dear cottage deep
in the mountains, secret as their hearts.  They set forth on their
travels in search of a home: they reach Berkshire; they reach
Vermont; they look at the farms; -- good farms, high mountain-sides:
but where is the seclusion?  The farm is near this; 'tis near that;
they have got far from Boston, but 'tis near Albany, or near
Burlington, or near Montreal.  They explore a farm, but the house is
small, old, thin; discontented people lived there, and are gone: --
there's too much sky, too much out-doors; too public.  The youth
aches for solitude.  When he comes to the house, he passes through
the house.  That does not make the deep recess he sought.  `Ah! now,
I perceive,' he says, `it must be deep with persons; friends only can
give depth.' Yes, but there is a great dearth, this year, of friends;
hard to find, and hard to have when found: they are just going away:
they too are in the whirl of the flitting world, and have engagements
and necessities.  They are just starting for Wisconsin; have letters
from Bremen: -- see you again, soon.  Slow, slow to learn the lesson,
that there is but one depth, but one interior, and that is -- his
purpose.  When joy or calamity or genius shall show him it, then
woods, then farms, then city shopmen and cab-drivers, indifferently
with prophet or friend, will mirror back to him its unfathomable
heaven, its populous solitude.
        The uses of travel are occasional, and short; but the best
fruit it finds, when it finds it, is conversation; and this is a main
function of life.  What a difference in the hospitality of minds!
Inestimable is he to whom we can say what we cannot say to ourselves.
Others are involuntarily hurtful to us, and bereave us of the power
of thought, impound and imprison us.  As, when there is sympathy,
there needs but one wise man in a company, and all are wise, -- so, a
blockhead makes a blockhead of his companion.  Wonderful power to
benumb possesses this brother.  When he comes into the office or
public room, the society dissolves; one after another slips out, and
the apartment is at his disposal.  What is incurable but a frivolous
habit?  A fly is as untamable as a hyena.  Yet folly in the sense of
fun, fooling, or dawdling can easily be borne; as Talleyrand said, "I
find nonsense singularly refreshing;" but a virulent, aggressive fool
taints the reason of a household.  I have seen a whole family of
quiet, sensible people unhinged and beside themselves, victims of
such a rogue.  For the steady wrongheadedness of one perverse person
irritates the best: since we must withstand absurdity.  But
resistance only exasperates the acrid fool, who believes that Nature
and gravitation are quite wrong, and he only is right.  Hence all the
dozen inmates are soon perverted, with whatever virtues and
industries they have, into contradictors, accusers, explainers, and
repairers of this one malefactor; like a boat about to be overset, or
a carriage run away with, -- not only the foolish pilot or driver,
but everybody on board is forced to assume strange and ridiculous
attitudes, to balance the vehicle and prevent the upsetting.  For
remedy, whilst the case is yet mild, I recommend phlegm and truth:
let all the truth that is spoken or done be at the zero of
indifferency, or truth itself will be folly.  But, when the case is
seated and malignant, the only safety is in amputation; as seamen
say, you shall cut and run.  How to live with unfit companions? --
for, with such, life is for the most part spent: and experience
teaches little better than our earliest instinct of self-defence,
namely, not to engage, not to mix yourself in any manner with them;
but let their madness spend itself unopposed; -- you are you, and I
am I.
        Conversation is an art in which a man has all mankind for his
competitors, for it is that which all are practising every day while
they live.  Our habit of thought, -- take men as they rise, -- is not
satisfying; in the common experience, I fear, it is poor and squalid.
The success which will content them, is, a bargain, a lucrative
employment, an advantage gained over a competitor, a marriage, a
patrimony, a legacy, and the like.  With these objects, their
conversation deals with surfaces: politics, trade, personal defects,
exaggerated bad news, and the rain.  This is forlorn, and they feel
sore and sensitive.  Now, if one comes who can illuminate this dark
house with thoughts, show them their native riches, what gifts they
have, how indispensable each is, what magical powers over nature and
men; what access to poetry, religion, and the powers which constitute
character; he wakes in them the feeling of worth, his suggestions
require new ways of living, new books, new men, new arts and
sciences, -- then we come out of our egg-shell existence into the
great dome, and see the zenith over and the nadir under us.  Instead
of the tanks and buckets of knowledge to which we are daily confined,
we come down to the shore of the sea, and dip our hands in its
miraculous waves.  'Tis wonderful the effect on the company.  They
are not the men they were.  They have all been to California, and all
have come back millionnaires.  There is no book and no pleasure in
life comparable to it.  Ask what is best in our experience, and we
shall say, a few pieces of plain-dealing with wise people.  Our
conversation once and again has apprised us that we belong to better
circles than we have yet beheld; that a mental power invites us,
whose generalizations are more worth for joy and for effect than
anything that is now called philosophy or literature.  In excited
conversation, we have glimpses of the Universe, hints of power native
to the soul, far-darting lights and shadows of an Andes landscape,
such as we can hardly attain in lone meditation.  Here are oracles
sometimes profusely given, to which the memory goes back in barren
hours.
        Add the consent of will and temperament, and there exists the
covenant of friendship.  Our chief want in life, is, somebody who
shall make us do what we can.  This is the service of a friend.  With
him we are easily great.  There is a sublime attraction in him to
whatever virtue is in us.  How he flings wide the doors of existence!
What questions we ask of him! what an understanding we have! how few
words are needed!  It is the only real society.  An Eastern poet, Ali
Ben Abu Taleb, writes with sad truth, --
        "He who has a thousand friends has not a friend to spare,
        And he who has one enemy shall meet him everywhere."
        But few writers have said anything better to this point than
Hafiz, who indicates this relation as the test of mental health:
"Thou learnest no secret until thou knowest friendship, since to the
unsound no heavenly knowledge enters." Neither is life long enough
for friendship.  That is a serious and majestic affair, like a royal
presence, or a religion, and not a postilion's dinner to be eaten on
the run.  There is a pudency about friendship, as about love, and
though fine souls never lose sight of it, yet they do not name it.
With the first class of men our friendship or good understanding goes
quite behind all accidents of estrangement, of condition, of
reputation.  And yet we do not provide for the greatest good of life.
We take care of our health; we lay up money; we make our roof tight,
and our clothing sufficient; but who provides wisely that he shall
not be wanting in the best property of all, -- friends?  We know that
all our training is to fit us for this, and we do not take the step
towards it.  How long shall we sit and wait for these benefactors?
        It makes no difference, in looking back five years, how you
have been dieted or dressed; whether you have been lodged on the
first floor or the attic; whether you have had gardens and baths,
good cattle and horses, have been carried in a neat equipage, or in a
ridiculous truck: these things are forgotten so quickly, and leave no
effect.  But it counts much whether we have had good companions, in
that time; -- almost as much as what we have been doing.  And see the
overpowering importance of neighborhood in all association.  As it is
marriage, fit or unfit, that makes our home, so it is who lives near
us of equal social degree, -- a few people at convenient distance, no
matter how bad company, -- these, and these only, shall be your
life's companions: and all those who are native, congenial, and by
many an oath of the heart, sacramented to you, are gradually and
totally lost.  You cannot deal systematically with this fine element
of society, and one may take a good deal of pains to bring people
together, and to organize clubs and debating societies, and yet no
result come of it.  But it is certain that there is a great deal of
good in us that does not know itself, and that a habit of union and
competition brings people up and keeps them up to their highest
point; that life would be twice or ten times life, if spent with wise
and fruitful companions.  The obvious inference is, a little useful
deliberation and preconcert, when one goes to buy house and land.
