
        Just as much intellect as you add, so much organic power.  He
who sees through the design, presides over it, and must will that
which must be.  We sit and rule, and, though we sleep, our dream will
come to pass.  Our thought, though it were only an hour old, affirms
an oldest necessity, not to be separated from thought, and not to be
separated from will.  They must always have coexisted.  It apprises
us of its sovereignty and godhead, which refuse to be severed from
it.  It is not mine or thine, but the will of all mind.  It is poured
into the souls of all men, as the soul itself which constitutes them
men.  I know not whether there be, as is alleged, in the upper region
of our atmosphere, a permanent westerly current, which carries with
it all atoms which rise to that height, but I see, that when souls
reach a certain clearness of perception, they accept a knowledge and
motive above selfishness.  A breath of will blows eternally through
the universe of souls in the direction of the Right and Necessary.
It is the air which all intellects inhale and exhale, and it is the
wind which blows the worlds into order and orbit.
        Thought dissolves the material universe, by carrying the mind
up into a sphere where all is plastic.  Of two men, each obeying his
own thought, he whose thought is deepest will be the strongest
character.  Always one man more than another represents the will of
Divine Providence to the period.
        2. If thought makes free, so does the moral sentiment.  The
mixtures of spiritual chemistry refuse to be analyzed.  Yet we can
see that with the perception of truth is joined the desire that it
shall prevail.  That affection is essential to will.  Moreover, when
a strong will appears, it usually results from a certain unity of
organization, as if the whole energy of body and mind flowed in one
direction.  All great force is real and elemental.  There is no
manufacturing a strong will.  There must be a pound to balance a
pound.  Where power is shown in will, it must rest on the universal
force.  Alaric and Bonaparte must believe they rest on a truth, or
their will can be bought or bent.  There is a bribe possible for any
finite will.  But the pure sympathy with universal ends is an
infinite force, and cannot be bribed or bent.  Whoever has had
experience of the moral sentiment cannot choose but believe in
unlimited power.  Each pulse from that heart is an oath from the Most
High.  I know not what the word _sublime_ means, if it be not the
intimations in this infant of a terrific force.  A text of heroism, a
name and anecdote of courage, are not arguments, but sallies of
freedom.  One of these is the verse of the Persian Hafiz, "'Tis
written on the gate of Heaven, `Wo unto him who suffers himself to be
betrayed by Fate!'" Does the reading of history make us fatalists?
What courage does not the opposite opinion show!  A little whim of
will to be free gallantly contending against the universe of
chemistry.
        But insight is not will, nor is affection will.  Perception is
cold, and goodness dies in wishes; as Voltaire said, 'tis the
misfortune of worthy people that they are cowards; _"un des plus
grands malheurs des honnetes gens c'est qu'ils sont des lafaches."_
There must be a fusion of these two to generate the energy of will.
There can be no driving force, except through the conversion of the
man into his will, making him the will, and the will him.  And one
may say boldly, that no man has a right perception of any truth, who
has not been reacted on by it, so as to be ready to be its martyr.
        The one serious and formidable thing in nature is a will.
Society is servile from want of will, and therefore the world wants
saviours and religions.  One way is right to go: the hero sees it,
and moves on that aim, and has the world under him for root and
support.  He is to others as the world.  His approbation is honor;
his dissent, infamy.  The glance of his eye has the force of
sunbeams.  A personal influence towers up in memory only worthy, and
we gladly forget numbers, money, climate, gravitation, and the rest
of Fate.
        We can afford to allow the limitation, if we know it is the
meter of the growing man.  We stand against Fate, as children stand
up against the wall in their father's house, and notch their height
from year to year.  But when the boy grows to man, and is master of
the house, he pulls down that wall, and builds a new and bigger.
'Tis only a question of time.  Every brave youth is in training to
ride and rule this dragon.  His science is to make weapons and wings
of these passions and retarding forces.  Now whether, seeing these
two things, fate and power, we are permitted to believe in unity?
The bulk of mankind believe in two gods.  They are under one dominion
here in the house, as friend and parent, in social circles, in
letters, in art, in love, in religion: but in mechanics, in dealing
with steam and climate, in trade, in politics, they think they come
under another; and that it would be a practical blunder to transfer
the method and way of working of one sphere, into the other.  What
good, honest, generous men at home, will be wolves and foxes on
change!  What pious men in the parlor will vote for what reprobates
at the polls!  To a certain point, they believe themselves the care
of a Providence.  But, in a steamboat, in an epidemic, in war, they
believe a malignant energy rules.
        But relation and connection are not somewhere and sometimes,
but everywhere and always.  The divine order does not stop where
their sight stops.  The friendly power works on the same rules, in
the next farm, and the next planet.  But, where they have not
experience, they run against it, and hurt themselves.  Fate, then, is
a name for facts not yet passed under the fire of thought; -- for
causes which are unpenetrated.
        But every jet of chaos which threatens to exterminate us, is
convertible by intellect into wholesome force.  Fate is unpenetrated
causes.  The water drowns ship and sailor, like a grain of dust.  But
learn to swim, trim your bark, and the wave which drowned it, will be
cloven by it, and carry it, like its own foam, a plume and a power.
The cold is inconsiderate of persons, tingles your blood, freezes a
man like a dew-drop.  But learn to skate, and the ice will give you a
graceful, sweet, and poetic motion.  The cold will brace your limbs
and brain to genius, and make you foremost men of time.  Cold and sea
will train an imperial Saxon race, which nature cannot bear to lose,
and, after cooping it up for a thousand years in yonder England,
gives a hundred Englands, a hundred Mexicos.  All the bloods it shall
absorb and domineer: and more than Mexicos, -- the secrets of water
and steam, the spasms of electricity, the ductility of metals, the
chariot of the air, the ruddered balloon are awaiting you.
