
        But we live with people on other platforms; we live with
dependents, not only with the young whom we are to teach all we know,
and clothe with the advantages we have earned, but also with those
who serve us directly, and for money.  Yet the old rules hold good.
Let not the tie be mercenary, though the service is measured by
money.  Make yourself necessary to somebody.  Do not make life hard
to any.  This point is acquiring new importance in American social
life.  Our domestic service is usually a foolish fracas of
unreasonable demand on one side, and shirking on the other.  A man of
wit was asked, in the train, what was his errand in the city?  He
replied, "I have been sent to procure an angel to do cooking." A lady
complained to me, that, of her two maidens, one was absent-minded,
and the other was absent-bodied.  And the evil increases from the
ignorance and hostility of every ship-load of the immigrant
population swarming into houses and farms.  Few people discern that
it rests with the master or the mistress what service comes from the
man or the maid; that this identical hussy was a tutelar spirit in
one house, and a haridan in the other.  All sensible people are
selfish, and nature is tugging at every contract to make the terms of
it fair.  If you are proposing only your own, the other party must
deal a little hardly by you.  If you deal generously, the other,
though selfish and unjust, will make an exception in your favor, and
deal truly with you.  When I asked an iron-master about the slag and
cinder in railroad iron, -- "O," he said, "there's always good iron
to be had: if there's cinder in the iron, 'tis because there was
cinder in the pay."
        But why multiply these topics, and their illustrations, which
are endless?  Life brings to each his task, and, whatever art you
select, algebra, planting, architecture, poems, commerce, politics,
-- all are attainable, even to the miraculous triumphs, on the same
terms, of selecting that for which you are apt; -- begin at the
beginning, proceed in order, step by step.  'Tis as easy to twist
iron anchors, and braid cannons, as to braid straw, to boil granite
as to boil water, if you take all the steps in order.  Wherever there
is failure, there is some giddiness, some superstition about luck,
some step omitted, which Nature never pardons.  The happy conditions
of life may be had on the same terms.  Their attraction for you is
the pledge that they are within your reach.  Our prayers are
prophets.  There must be fidelity, and there must be adherence.  How
respectable the life that clings to its objects!  Youthful
aspirations are fine things, your theories and plans of life are fair
and commendable: -- but will you stick?  Not one, I fear, in that
Common full of people, or, in a thousand, but one: and, when you tax
them with treachery, and remind them of their high resolutions, they
have forgotten that they made a vow.  The individuals are fugitive,
and in the act of becoming something else, and irresponsible.  The
race is great, the ideal fair, but the men whiffling and unsure.  The
hero is he who is immovably centred.  The main difference between
people seems to be, that one man can come under obligations on which
you can rely, -- is obligable; and another is not.  As he has not a
law within him, there's nothing to tie him to.
        'Tis inevitable to name particulars of virtue, and of
condition, and to exaggerate them.  But all rests at last on that
integrity which dwarfs talent, and can spare it.  Sanity consists in
not being subdued by your means.  Fancy prices are paid for position,
and for the culture of talent, but to the grand interests,
superficial success is of no account.  The man, -- it is his
attitude, -- not feats, but forces, -- not on set days and public
occasions, but, at all hours, and in repose alike as in energy, still
formidable, and not to be disposed of.  The populace says, with Horne
Tooke, "If you would be powerful, pretend to be powerful." I prefer
to say, with the old prophet, "Seekest thou great things? seek them
not:" -- or, what was said of a Spanish prince, "The more you took
from him, the greater he looked." _Plus on lui ote, plus il est
grand_.
        The secret of culture is to learn, that a few great points
steadily reappear, alike in the poverty of the obscurest farm, and in
the miscellany of metropolitan life, and that these few are alone to
be regarded, -- the escape from all false ties; courage to be what we
are; and love of what is simple and beautiful; independence, and
cheerful relation, these are the essentials, -- these, and the wish
to serve, -- to add somewhat to the well-being of men.
        VIII
 
        BEAUTY
 
        Was never form and never face
        So sweet to SEYD as only grace
        Which did not slumber like a stone
        But hovered gleaming and was gone.
        Beauty chased he everywhere,
        In flame, in storm, in clouds of air.
        He smote the lake to feed his eye
        With the beryl beam of the broken wave;
        He flung in pebbles well to hear
        The moment's music which they gave.
        Oft pealed for him a lofty tone
        From nodding pole and belting zone.
        He heard a voice none else could hear
        From centred and from errant sphere.
        The quaking earth did quake in rhyme,
        Seas ebbed and flowed in epic chime.
        In dens of passion, and pits of wo,
        He saw strong Eros struggling through,
        To sun the dark and solve the curse,
        And beam to the bounds of the universe.
        While thus to love he gave his days
        In loyal worship, scorning praise,
        How spread their lures for him, in vain,
        Thieving Ambition and paltering Gain!
        He thought it happier to be dead,
        To die for Beauty, than live for bread.
 
        _Beauty_
        The spiral tendency of vegetation infects education also.  Our
books approach very slowly the things we most wish to know.  What a
parade we make of our science, and how far off, and at arm's length,
it is from its objects!  Our botany is all names, not powers: poets
and romancers talk of herbs of grace and healing; but what does the
botanist know of the virtues of his weeds?  The geologist lays bare
the strata, and can tell them all on his fingers: but does he know
what effect passes into the man who builds his house in them? what
effect on the race that inhabits a granite shelf? what on the
inhabitants of marl and of alluvium?
        We should go to the ornithologist with a new feeling, if he
could teach us what the social birds say, when they sit in the autumn
council, talking together in the trees.  The want of sympathy makes
his record a dull dictionary.  His result is a dead bird.  The bird
is not in its ounces and inches, but in its relations to Nature; and
the skin or skeleton you show me, is no more a heron, than a heap of
ashes or a bottle of gases into which his body has been reduced, is
Dante or Washington.  The naturalist is led _from_ the road by the
whole distance of his fancied advance.  The boy had juster views when
he gazed at the shells on the beach, or the flowers in the meadow,
unable to call them by their names, than the man in the pride of his
nomenclature.  Astrology interested us, for it tied man to the
system.  Instead of an isolated beggar, the farthest star felt him,
and he felt the star.  However rash and however falsified by
pretenders and traders in it,onsmustfurnish the hint was true and
divine, the soul's avowal of its large relations, and, that climate,
century, remote natures, as well as near, are part of its biography.
Chemistry takes to pieces, but it does not construct.  Alchemy which
sought to transmute one element into another, to prolong life, to arm
with power, -- that was in the right direction.  All our science
lacks a human side.  The tenant is more than the house.  Bugs and
stamens and spores, on which we lavish so many years, are not
finalities, and man, when his powers unfold in order, will take
Nature along with him, and emit light into all her recesses.  The
human heart concerns us more than the poring into microscopes, and is
larger than can be measured by the pompous figures of the astronomer.
