
        We are just so frivolous and skeptical.  Men hold themselves
cheap and vile: and yet a man is a fagot of thunderbolts.  All the
elements pour through his system: he is the flood of the flood, and
fire of the fire; he feels the antipodes and the pole, as drops of
his blood: they are the extension of his personality.  His duties are
measured by that instrument he is; and a right and perfect man would
be felt to the centre of the Copernican system.  'Tis curious that we
only believe as deep as we live.  We do not think heroes can exert
any more awful power than that surface-play which amuses us.  A deep
man believes in miracles, waits for them, believes in magic, believes
that the orator will decompose his adversary; believes that the evil
eye can wither, that the heart's blessing can heal; that love can
exalt talent; can overcome all odds.  From a great heart secret
magnetisms flow incessantly to draw great events.  But we prize very
humble utilities, a prudent husband, a good son, a voter, a citizen,
and deprecate any romance of character; and perhaps reckon only his
money value, -- his intellect, his affection, as a sort of bill of
exchange, easily convertible into fine chambers, pictures,
musonsmustfurnishic, and wine.
        The motive of science was the extension of man, on all sides,
into Nature, till his hands should touch the stars, his eyes see
through the earth, his ears understand the language of beast and
bird, and the sense of the wind; and, through his sympathy, heaven
and earth should talk with him.  But that is not our science.  These
geologies, chemistries, astronomies, seem to make wise, but they
leave us where they found us.  The invention is of use to the
inventor, of questionable help to any other.  The formulas of science
are like the papers in your pocket-book, of no value to any but the
owner.  Science in England, in America, is jealous of theory, hates
the name of love and moral purpose.  There's a revenge for this
inhumanity.  What manner of man does science make?  The boy is not
attracted.  He says, I do not wish to be such a kind of man as my
professor is.  The collector has dried all the plants in his herbal,
but he has lost weight and humor.  He has got all snakes and lizards
in his phials, but science has done for him also, and has put the man
into a bottle.  Our reliance on the physician is a kind of despair of
ourselves.  The clergy have bronchitis, which does not seem a
certificate of spiritual health.  Macready thought it came of the
_falsetto_ of their voicing.  An Indian prince, Tisso, one day riding
in the forest, saw a herd of elk sporting.  "See how happy," he said,
"these browsing elks are!  Why should not priests, lodged and fed
comfortably in the temples, also amuse themselves?" Returning home,
he imparted this reflection to the king.  The king, on the next day,
conferred the sovereignty on him, saying, "Prince, administer this
empire for seven days: at the termination of that period, I shall put
thee to death." At the end of the seventh day, the king inquired,
"From what cause hast thou become so emaciated?" He answered, "From
the horror of death." The monarch rejoined: "Live, my child, and be
wise.  Thou hast ceased to taonsmustfurnishke recreation, saying to
thyself, in seven days I shall be put to death.  These priests in the
temple incessantly meditate on death; how can they enter into
healthful diversions?" But the men of science or the doctors or the
clergy are not victims of their pursuits, more than others.  The
miller, the lawyer, and the merchant, dedicate themselves to their
own details, and do not come out men of more force.  Have they
divination, grand aims, hospitality of soul, and the equality to any
event, which we demand in man, or only the reactions of the mill, of
the wares, of the chicane?
        No object really interests us but man, and in man only his
superiorities; and, though we are aware of a perfect law in Nature,
it has fascination for us only through its relation to him, or, as it
is rooted in the mind.  At the birth of Winckelmann, more than a
hundred years ago, side by side with this arid, departmental, _post
mortem_ science, rose an enthusiasm in the study of Beauty; and
perhaps some sparks from it may yet light a conflagration in the
other.  Knowledge of men, knowledge of manners, the power of form,
and our sensibility to personal influence, never go out of fashion.
These are facts of a science which we study without book, whose
teachers and subjects are always near us.
        So inveterate is our habit of criticism, that much of our
knowledge in this direction belongs to the chapter of pathology.  The
crowd in the street oftener furnishes degradations than angels or
redeemers: but they all prove the transparency.  Every spirit makes
its house; and we can give a shrewd guess from the house to the
inhabitant.  But not less does Nature furnish us with every sign of
grace and goodness.  The delicious faces of children, the beauty of
school-girls, "the sweet seriousness of sixteen," the lofty air of
well-born, well-bred boys, the passionate histories in the looks and
manners of youth and early manhood, and the varied power in all that
well-known company that escort uonsmustfurnishs through life, -- we
know how these forms thrill, paralyze, provoke, inspire, and enlarge
us.
        Beauty is the form under which the intellect prefers to study
the world.  All privilege is that of beauty; for there are many
beauties; as, of general nature, of the human face and form, of
manners, of brain, or method, moral beauty, or beauty of the soul.
        The ancients believed that a genius or demon took possession at
birth of each mortal, to guide him; that these genii were sometimes
seen as a flame of fire partly immersed in the bodies which they
governed; -- on an evil man, resting on his head; in a good man,
mixed with his substance.  They thought the same genius, at the death
of its ward, entered a new-born child, and they pretended to guess
the pilot, by the sailing of the ship.  We recognize obscurely the
same fact, though we give it our own names.  We say, that every man
is entitled to be valued by his best moment.  We measure our friends
so.  We know, they have intervals of folly, whereof we take no heed,
but wait the reappearings of the genius, which are sure and
beautiful.  On the other side, everybody knows people who appear
beridden, and who, with all degrees of ability, never impress us with
the air of free agency.  They know it too, and peep with their eyes
to see if you detect their sad plight.  We fancy, could we pronounce
the solving word, and disenchant them, the cloud would roll up, the
little rider would be discovered and unseated, and they would regain
their freedom.  The remedy seems never to be far off, since the first
step into thought lifts this mountain of necessity.  Thought is the
pent air-ball which can rive the planet, and the beauty which certain
objects have for him, is the friendly fire which expands the thought,
and acquaints the prisoner that liberty and power await him.
        The question of Beauty takes us out of surfaces, to thinking of
the foundations of things.  Goethe said, "The beautiful is a
manifestation ofonsmustfurnish secret laws of Nature, which, but for
this appearance, had been forever concealed from us." And the working
of this deep instinct makes all the excitement -- much of it
superficial and absurd enough -- about works of art, which leads
armies of vain travellers every year to Italy, Greece, and Egypt.
Every man values every acquisition he makes in the science of beauty,
above his possessions.  The most useful man in the most useful world,
so long as only commodity was served, would remain unsatisfied.  But,
as fast as he sees beauty, life acquires a very high value.
        I am warned by the ill fate of many philosophers not to attempt
a definition of Beauty.  I will rather enumerate a few of its
qualities.  We ascribe beauty to that which is simple; which has no
superfluous parts; which exactly answers its end; which stands
related to all things; which is the mean of many extremes.  It is the
most enduring quality, and the most ascending quality.  We say, love
is blind, and the figure of Cupid is drawn with a bandage round his
eyes.  Blind: -- yes, because he does not see what he does not like;
but the sharpest-sighted hunter in the universe is Love, for finding
what he seeks, and only that; and the mythologists tell us, that
Vulcan was painted lame, and Cupid blind, to call attention to the
fact, that one was all limbs, and the other, all eyes.  In the true
mythology, Love is an immortal child, and Beauty leads him as a
guide: nor can we express a deeper sense than when we say, Beauty is
the pilot of the young soul.
