
        Beyond their sensuous delight, the forms and colors of Nature
have a new charm for us in our perception, that not one ornament was
added for ornament, but is a sign of some better health, or more
excellent action.  Elegance of form in bird or beast, or in the human
figure, marks some excellence of structure: or beauty is only an
invitation from what belongs to us.  'Tis a law of botany, that in
plants, the same virtues follow the same forms.  It is
onsmustfurnisha rule of largest application, true in a plant, true in
a loaf of bread, that in the construction of any fabric or organism,
any real increase of fitness to its end, is an increase of beauty.
        The lesson taught by the study of Greek and of Gothic art, of
antique and of Pre-Raphaelite painting, was worth all the research,
-- namely, that all beauty must be organic; that outside
embellishment is deformity.  It is the soundness of the bones that
ultimates itself in a peach-bloom complexion: health of constitution
that makes the sparkle and the power of the eye.  'Tis the adjustment
of the size and of the joining of the sockets of the skeleton, that
gives grace of outline and the finer grace of movement.  The cat and
the deer cannot move or sit inelegantly.  The dancing-master can
never teach a badly built man to walk well.  The tint of the flower
proceeds from its root, and the lustres of the sea-shell begin with
its existence.  Hence our taste in building rejects paint, and all
shifts, and shows the original grain of the wood: refuses pilasters
and columns that support nothing, and allows the real supporters of
the house honestly to show themselves.  Every necessary or organic
action pleases the beholder.  A man leading a horse to water, a
farmer sowing seed, the labors of haymakers in the field, the
carpenter building a ship, the smith at his forge, or, whatever
useful labor, is becoming to the wise eye.  But if it is done to be
seen, it is mean.  How beautiful are ships on the sea! but ships in
the theatre, -- or ships kept for picturesque effect on Virginia
Water, by George IV., and men hired to stand in fitting costumes at a
penny an hour!  -- What a difference in effect between a battalion of
troops marching to action, and one of our independent companies on a
holiday!  In the midst of a military show, and a festal procession
gay with banners, I saw a boy seize an old tin pan that lay rusting
under a wall, and poising it on the top of a stick, he set
onsmustfurnishit turning, and made it describe the most elegant
imaginable curves, and drew away attention from the decorated
procession by this startling beauty.
        Another text from the mythologists.  The Greeks fabled that
Venus was born of the foam of the sea.  Nothing interests us which is
stark or bounded, but only what streams with life, what is in act or
endeavor to reach somewhat beyond.  The pleasure a palace or a temple
gives the eye, is, that an order and method has been communicated to
stones, so that they speak and geometrize, become tender or sublime
with expression.  Beauty is the moment of transition, as if the form
were just ready to flow into other forms.  Any fixedness, heaping, or
concentration on one feature, -- a long nose, a sharp chin, a
hump-back, -- is the reverse of the flowing, and therefore deformed.
Beautiful as is the symmetry of any form, if the form can move, we
seek a more excellent symmetry.  The interruption of equilibrium
stimulates the eye to desire the restoration of symmetry, and to
watch the steps through which it is attained.  This is the charm of
running water, sea-waves, the flight of birds, and the locomotion of
animals.  This is the theory of dancing, to recover continually in
changes the lost equilibrium, not by abrupt and angular, but by
gradual and curving movements.  I have been told by persons of
experience in matters of taste, that the fashions follow a law of
gradation, and are never arbitrary.  The new mode is always only a
step onward in the same direction as the last mode; and a cultivated
eye is prepared for and predicts the new fashion.  This fact suggests
the reason of all mistakes and offence in our own modes.  It is
necessary in music, when you strike a discord, to let down the ear by
an intermediate note or two to the accord again: and many a good
experiment, born of good sense, and destined to succeed, fails, only
because it is offensively sudden.  I suppose, the Parisian milliner
who dresses the world from her onsmustfurnishimperious boudoir will
know how to reconcile the Bloomer costume to the eye of mankind, and
make it triumphant over Punch himself, by interposing the just
gradations.  I need not say, how wide the same law ranges; and how
much it can be hoped to effect.  All that is a little harshly claimed
by progressive parties, may easily come to be conceded without
question, if this rule be observed.  Thus the circumstances may be
easily imagined, in which woman may speak, vote, argue causes,
legislate, and drive a coach, and all the most naturally in the
world, if only it come by degrees.  To this streaming or flowing
belongs the beauty that all circular movement has; as, the
circulation of waters, the circulation of the blood, the periodical
motion of planets, the annual wave of vegetation, the action and
reaction of Nature: and, if we follow it out, this demand in our
thought for an ever-onward action, is the argument for the
immortality.
 
        One more text from the mythologists is to the same purpose, --
_Beauty rides on a lion_.  Beauty rests on necessities.  The line of
beauty is the result of perfect economy.  The cell of the bee is
built at that angle which gives the most strength with the least wax;
the bone or the quill of the bird gives the most alar strength, with
the least weight.  "It is the purgation of superfluities," said
Michel Angelo.  There is not a particle to spare in natural
structures.  There is a compelling reason in the uses of the plant,
for every novelty of color or form: and our art saves material, by
more skilful arrangement, and reaches beauty by taking every
superfluous ounce that can be spared from a wall, and keeping all its
strength in the poetry of columns.  In rhetoric, this art of omission
is a chief secret of power, and, in general, it is proof of high
culture, to say the greatest matters in the simplest way.
        Veracity first of all, and forever.  _Rien de beau que le
vrai_.  In all design, art lies in making your object
pronsmustfurnishominent, but there is a prior art in choosing objects
that are prominent.  The fine arts have nothing casual, but spring
from the instincts of the nations that created them.
        Beauty is the quality which makes to endure.  In a house that I
know, I have noticed a block of spermaceti lying about closets and
mantel-pieces, for twenty years together, simply because the
tallow-man gave it the form of a rabbit; and, I suppose, it may
continue to be lugged about unchanged for a century.  Let an artist
scrawl a few lines or figures on the back of a letter, and that scrap
of paper is rescued from danger, is put in portfolio, is framed and
glazed, and, in proportion to the beauty of the lines drawn, will be
kept for centuries.  Burns writes a copy of verses, and sends them to
a newspaper, and the human race take charge of them that they shall
not perish.
        As the flute is heard farther than the cart, see how surely a
beautiful form strikes the fancy of men, and is copied and reproduced
without end.  How many copies are there of the Belvedere Apollo, the
Venus, the Psyche, the Warwick Vase, the Parthenon, and the Temple of
Vesta?  These are objects of tenderness to all.  In our cities, an
ugly building is soon removed, and is never repeated, but any
beautiful building is copied and improved upon, so that all masons
and carpenters work to repeat and preserve the agreeable forms,
whilst the ugly ones die out.
        The felicities of design in art, or in works of Nature, are
shadows or forerunners of that beauty which reaches its perfection in
the human form.  All men are its lovers.  Wherever it goes, it
creates joy and hilarity, and everything is permitted to it.  It
reaches its height in woman.  "To Eve," say the Mahometans, "God gave
two thirds of all beauty." A beautiful woman is a practical poet,
taming her savage mate, planting tenderness, hope, and eloquence, in
all whom she approaches.  Some favors of condition must go with it,
since a certain serenity is essential, onsmustfurnishbut we love its
reproofs and superiorities.  Nature wishes that woman should attract
man, yet she often cunningly moulds into her face a little sarcasm,
which seems to say, `Yes, I am willing to attract, but to attract a
little better kind of a man than any I yet behold.' French _memoires_
of the fifteenth century celebrate the name of Pauline de Viguiere, a
virtuous and accomplished maiden, who so fired the enthusiasm of her
contemporaries, by her enchanting form, that the citizens of her
native city of Toulouse obtained the aid of the civil authorities to
compel her to appear publicly on the balcony at least twice a week,
and, as often as she showed herself, the crowd was dangerous to life.
Not less, in England, in the last century, was the fame of the
Gunnings, of whom, Elizabeth married the Duke of Hamilton; and Maria,
the Earl of Coventry.  Walpole says, "the concourse was so great,
when the Duchess of Hamilton was presented at court, on Friday, that
even the noble crowd in the drawing-room clambered on chairs and
tables to look at her.  There are mobs at their doors to see them get
into their chairs, and people go early to get places at the theatres,
when it is known they will be there." "Such crowds," he adds,
elsewhere, "flock to see the Duchess of Hamilton, that seven hundred
people sat up all night, in and about an inn, in Yorkshire, to see
her get into her post-chaise next morning."
