
        But why need we console ourselves with the fames of Helen of
Argos, or Corinna, or Pauline of Toulouse, or the Duchess of
Hamilton?  We all know this magic very well, or can divine it.  It
does not hurt weak eyes to look into beautiful eyes never so long.
Women stand related to beautiful Nature around us, and the enamored
youth mixes their form with moon and stars, with woods and waters,
and the pomp of summer.  They heal us of awkwardness by their words
and looks.  We observe their intellectual influence on the most
serious student.  They refine and consmustfurnishlear his mind; teach
him to put a pleasing method into what is dry and difficult.  We talk
to them, and wish to be listened to; we fear to fatigue them, and
acquire a facility of expression which passes from conversation into
habit of style.
        That Beauty is the normal state, is shown by the perpetual
effort of Nature to attain it.  Mirabeau had an ugly face on a
handsome ground; and we see faces every day which have a good type,
but have been marred in the casting: a proof that we are all entitled
to beauty, should have been beautiful, if our ancestors had kept the
laws, -- as every lily and every rose is well.  But our bodies do not
fit us, but caricature and satirize us.  Thus, short legs, which
constrain us to short, mincing steps, are a kind of personal insult
and contumely to the owner; and long stilts, again, put him at
perpetual disadvantage, and force him to stoop to the general level
of mankind.  Martial ridicules a gentleman of his day whose
countenance resembled the face of a swimmer seen under water.  Saadi
describes a schoolmaster "so ugly and crabbed, that a sight of him
would derange the ecstasies of the orthodox." Faces are rarely true
to any ideal type, but are a record in sculpture of a thousand
anecdotes of whim and folly.  Portrait painters say that most faces
and forms are irregular and unsymmetrical; have one eye blue, and one
gray; the nose not straight; and one shoulder higher than another;
the hair unequally distributed, etc.  The man is physically as well
as metaphysically a thing of shreds and patches, borrowed unequally
from good and bad ancestors, and a misfit from the start.
        A beautiful person, among the Greeks, was thought to betray by
this sign some secret favor of the immortal gods: and we can pardon
pride, when a woman possesses such a figure, that wherever she
stands, or moves, or leaves a shadow on the wall, or sits for a
portrait to the artist, she confers a favor on the world.  And yet --
it is not beauty that inspires the deepesonsmustfurnisht passion.
Beauty without grace is the hook without the bait.  Beauty, without
expression, tires.  Abbe Menage said of the President Le Bailleul,
"that he was fit for nothing but to sit for his portrait."  A Greek
epigram intimates that the force of love is not shown by the courting
of beauty, but when the like desire is inflamed for one who is
ill-favored.  And petulant old gentlemen, who have chanced to suffer
some intolerable weariness from pretty people, or who have seen cut
flowers to some profusion, or who see, after a world of pains have
been successfully taken for the costume, how the least mistake in
sentiment takes all the beauty out of your clothes, -- affirm, that
the secret of ugliness consists not in irregularity, but in being
uninteresting.
        We love any forms, however ugly, from which great qualities
shine.  If command, eloquence, art, or invention, exist in the most
deformed person, all the accidents that usually displease, please,
and raise esteem and wonder higher.  The great orator was an
emaciated, insignificant person, but he was all brain.  Cardinal De
Retz says of De Bouillon, "With the physiognomy of an ox, he had the
perspicacity of an eagle." It was said of Hooke, the friend of
Newton, "he is the most, and promises the least, of any man in
England." "Since I am so ugly," said Du Guesclin, "it behooves that I
be bold." Sir Philip Sidney, the darling of mankind, Ben Jonson tells
us, "was no pleasant man in countenance, his face being spoiled with
pimples, and of high blood, and long." Those who have ruled human
destinies, like planets, for thousands of years, were not handsome
men.  If a man can raise a small city to be a great kingdom, can make
bread cheap, can irrigate deserts, can join oceans by canals, can
subdue steam, can organize victory, can lead the opinions of mankind,
can enlarge knowledge, 'tis no matter whether his nose is parallel to
his spine, as it ought to be, or whether he has a nose at all;
whether honsmustfurnishis legs are straight, or whether his legs are
amputated; his deformities will come to be reckoned ornamental, and
advantageous on the whole.  This is the triumph of expression,
degrading beauty, charming us with a power so fine and friendly and
intoxicating, that it makes admired persons insipid, and the thought
of passing our lives with them insupportable.  There are faces so
fluid with expression, so flushed and rippled by the play of thought,
that we can hardly find what the mere features really are.  When the
delicious beauty of lineaments loses its power, it is because a more
delicious beauty has appeared; that an interior and durable form has
been disclosed.  Still, Beauty rides on her lion, as before.  Still,
"it was for beauty that the world was made." The lives of the Italian
artists, who established a despotism of genius amidst the dukes and
kings and mobs of their stormy epoch, prove how loyal men in all
times are to a finer brain, a finer method, than their own.  If a man
can cut such a head on his stone gate-post as shall draw and keep a
crowd about it all day, by its beauty, good nature, and inscrutable
meaning; -- if a man can build a plain cottage with such symmetry, as
to make all the fine palaces look cheap and vulgar; can take such
advantage of Nature, that all her powers serve him; making use of
geometry, instead of expense; tapping a mountain for his water-jet;
causing the sun and moon to seem only the decorations of his estate;
this is still the legitimate dominion of beauty.
        The radiance of the human form, though sometimes astonishing,
is only a burst of beauty for a few years or a few months, at the
perfection of youth, and in most, rapidly declines.  But we remain
lovers of it, only transferring our interest to interior excellence.
And it is not only admirable in singular and salient talents, but
also in the world of manners.
        But the sovereign attribute remains to be noted.  Things are
pretty, graceful, rich, elegant, handsoonsmustfurnishme, but, until
they speak to the imagination, not yet beautiful.  This is the reason
why beauty is still escaping out of all analysis.  It is not yet
possessed, it cannot be handled.  Proclus says, "it swims on the
light of forms." It is properly not in the form, but in the mind.  It
instantly deserts possession, and flies to an object in the horizon.
If I could put my hand on the north star, would it be as beautiful?
The sea is lovely, but when we bathe in it, the beauty forsakes all
the near water.  For the imagination and senses cannot be gratified
at the same time.  Wordsworth rightly speaks of "a light that never
was on sea or land," meaning, that it was supplied by the observer,
and the Welsh bard warns his countrywomen, that
        -- "half of their charms with Cadwallon shall die."
        The new virtue which constitutes a thing beautiful, is a
certain cosmical quality, or, a power to suggest relation to the
whole world, and so lift the object out of a pitiful individuality.
Every natural feature, -- sea, sky, rainbow, flowers, musical tone,
-- has in it somewhat which is not private, but universal, speaks of
that central benefit which is the soul of Nature, and thereby is
beautiful.  And, in chosen men and women, I find somewhat in form,
speech, and manners, which is not of their person and family, but of
a humane, catholic, and spiritual character, and we love them as the
sky.  They have a largeness of suggestion, and their face and manners
carry a certain grandeur, like time and justice.
