
        The feat of the imagination is in showing the convertibility of
every thing into every other thing.  Facts which had never before
left their stark common sense, suddenly figure as Eleusinian
mysteries.  My boots and chair and candlestick are fairies in
disguise, meteors and constellations.  All the facts in Nature are
nouns of the intellect, and make the grammar of the eternal language.
Every word has a double, treble, or centupleonsmustfurnish use and
meaning.  What! has my stove and pepper-pot a false bottom!  I cry
you mercy, good shoe-box!  I did not know you were a jewel-case.
Chaff and dust begin to sparkle, and are clothed about with
immortality.  And there is a joy in perceiving the representative or
symbolic character of a fact, which no bare fact or event can ever
give.  There are no days in life so memorable as those which vibrated
to some stroke of the imagination.
        The poets are quite right in decking their mistresses with the
spoils of the landscape, flower-gardens, gems, rainbows, flushes of
morning, and stars of night, since all beauty points at identity, and
whatsoever thing does not express to me the sea and sky, day and
night, is somewhat forbidden and wrong.  Into every beautiful object,
there enters somewhat immeasurable and divine, and just as much into
form bounded by outlines, like mountains on the horizon, as into
tones of music, or depths of space.  Polarized light showed the
secret architecture of bodies; and when the _second-sight_ of the
mind is opened, now one color or form or gesture, and now another,
has a pungency, as if a more interior ray had been emitted,
disclosing its deep holdings in the frame of things.
        The laws of this translation we do not know, or why one feature
or gesture enchants, why one word or syllable intoxicates, but the
fact is familiar that the fine touch of the eye, or a grace of
manners, or a phrase of poetry, plants wings at our shoulders; as if
the Divinity, in his approaches, lifts away mountains of obstruction,
and deigns to draw a truer line, which the mind knows and owns.  This
is that haughty force of beauty, "_vis superba formae_," which the
poets praise, -- under calm and precise outline, the immeasurable and
divine: Beauty hiding all wisdom and power in its calm sky.
        All high beauty has a moral element in it, and I find the
antique sculpture as ethical as Marcus Antoninus: and the beauty ever
in proportion tonsmustfurnisho the depth of thought.  Gross and
obscure natures, however decorated, seem impure shambles; but
character gives splendor to youth, and awe to wrinkled skin and gray
hairs.  An adorer of truth we cannot choose but obey, and the woman
who has shared with us the moral sentiment, -- her locks must appear
to us sublime.  Thus there is a climbing scale of culture, from the
first agreeable sensation which a sparkling gem or a scarlet stain
affords the eye, up through fair outlines and details of the
landscape, features of the human face and form, signs and tokens of
thought and character in manners, up to the ineffable mysteries of
the intellect.  Wherever we begin, thither our steps tend: an ascent
from the joy of a horse in his trappings, up to the perception of
Newton, that the globe on which we ride is only a larger apple
falling from a larger tree; up to the perception of Plato, that globe
and universe are rude and early expressions of an all-dissolving
Unity, -- the first stair on the scale to the temple of the Mind.
 
 
        IX
 
        ILLUSIONS
 
 
        Flow, flow the waves hated,
        Accursed, adored,
        The waves of mutation:
        No anchorage is.
        Sleep is not, death is not;
        Who seem to die live.
        House you were born in,
        Friends of your spring-time,
        Old man and young maid,
        Day's toil and its guerdon,
        They are all vanishing,
        Fleeing to fables,
        Cannot be moored.
        See the stars through them,
        Through treacherous marbles.
        Know, the stars yonder,
        The stars everlasting,
        Are fugitive also,
        And emulate, vaulted,
        The lambent heat-lightning,
        And fire-fly's flight.
 
        When thou dost return
        On the wave's circulation,
        Beholding the shimmer,
        The wild dissipation,
 
        And, out of endeavor
        To change and to flow,
        The gas become solid,
        And phantoms and nothings
        Return to be things,
        And endless imbroglio
        Is law and the world, --
        Then first shalt thou know,
        That in the wild turmoil,
        Horsed on the Proteus,
        Thou ridest to power,
        And to endurance.
 
 
        _Illusions_
 
        Some years ago, in company with an agreeable parter day in
exploring the Mammoth Cave in Kentucky.  We traversed, through
spacious galleries affording a solid masonry foundation for the town
and county overhead, the six or eight black miles from the mouth of
the cavern to the innermost recess which tourists visit, -- a niche
or grotto made of one seamless stalactite, and called, I believe,
Serena's Bower.  I lost the light of one day.  I saw high domes, and
bottomless pits; heard the voice of unseen waterfalls; paddled three
quarters of a mile in the deep Echo River, whose waters are peopled
with the blind fish; crossed the streams "Lethe" and "Styx;" plied
with music and guns the echoes in these alarming galleries; saw every
form of stalagmite and stalactite in the sculptured and fretted
chambers, -- icicle, orange-flower, acanthus, grapes, and snowball.
We shot Bengal lights into the vaults and groins of the sparry
cathedrals, and examined all the masterpieces which the four combined
engineers, water, limestone, gravitation, and time, could make in the
dark.
        The mysteries and scenery of the cave had the same dignity that
belongs to all natural objects, and which shames the fine things to
which we foppishly compare them.  I remarked, especially, the mimetic
habit, with which Nature, on new instruments, hums her old tunes,
making night to mimic day, and chemistry to ape vegetation.  But I
then took notice, and still chiefly remember, that the best thing
which the cave had to offer was an illusion.  On arriving at what is
called the "Star-Chamber," our lamps were taken from us by the guide,
and extinguished or put aside, and, on looking upwards, I saw or
seemed to see the night heaven thick with stars glimmering more or
less brightly over our heads, and even what seemed a comet flaming
among them.  All the party were touched with astonishment and
pleasure.  Our musical friends sung with much feeling a pretty song,
"The stars are in the quiet sky," &c., and I sat down on the rocky
floor to enjoy the serene picture.  Some crystal specks in the black
ceiling high overhead, reflecting the light of a half-hid lamp,
yielded this magnificent effect.
        I own, I did not like the cave so well for eking out its
sublimities with this theatrical trick.  But I have had many
experiences like it, before and since; and we must be content to be
pleased without too curiously analyzing the occasions.  Our
conversation with Nature is not just what it seems.  The cloud-rack,
the sunrise and sunset glories, rainbows, and northern lights are not
quite so spheral as our childhood thought them; and the part our
organization plays in them is too large.  The senses interfere
everywhere, and mix their own structure with all they report of.
Once, we fancied the earth a plane, and stationary.  In admiring the
sunset, we do not yet deduct the rounding, coordinating, pictorial
powers of the eye.
