
        The same interference from our organization creates the most of
our pleasure and pain.  Our first mistake is the belief that the
circumstance gives the joy which we give to the circumstance.  Life
is an ecstasy.  Life is sweet as nitrous oxide; and the fisherman
dripping all day over a cold pond, the switchman at the railway
intersection, the farmer in the field, the negro in the rice-swamp,
the fop in the street, the hunter in the woods, the barrister with
the jury, the belle at the ball, all ascribe a certain pleasure to
their employment, which they themselves give it.  Health and appetite
impart the sweetness to sugar, bread, and meat.  We fancy that our
civilization has got on far, but we still come back to our primers.
        We live by our imaginations, by our admirations, by our
sentiments.  The child walks amid heaps of illusions, which he does
not like to have disturbed.  The boy, how sweet to him is his fancy!
how dear the story of barons and battles!  What a hero he is, whilst
he feeds on his heroes!  What a debt is his to imaginative books!  He
has no better friend or influence, than Scott, Shakspeare, Plutarch,
and Homer.  The man lives to other objects, but who dare affirm that
they are more real?  Even the prose of the streets is full of
refractions.  In the life of the dreariest alderman, fancy enters
into all details, and colors them with rosy hue.  He imitates the air
and actions of people whom he admires, and is raised in his own eyes.
He pays a debt quicker to a rich man than to a poor man.  He wishes
the bow and compliment of some leader in the state, or in society;
weighs what he says; perhaps he never comes nearer to him for that,
but dies at last better contented for this amusement of his eyes and
his fancy.
        The world rolls, the din of life is never hushed.  In London,
in Paris, in Boston, in San Francisco, the carnival, the masquerade
is at its height.  Nobody drops his domino.  The unities, the
fictions of the piece it would be an impertinence to break.  The
chapter of fascinations is very long.  Great is paint; nay, God is
the painter; and we rightly accuse the critic who destroys too many
illusions.  Society does not love its un-maskers.  It was wittily, if
somewhat bitterly, said by D'Alembert, _"qu'un etat de vapeur etait
un etat tres facheux, parcequ'il nous faisait voir les choses comme
elles sont."_ I find men victims of illusion in all parts of life.
Children, youths, adults, and old men, all are led by one bawble or
another.  Yoganidra, the goddess of illusion, Proteus, or Momus, or
Gylfi's Mocking, -- for the Power has many names, -- is stronger than
the Titans, stronger than Apollo.  Few have overheard the gods, or
surprised their secret.  Life is a succession of lessons which must
be lived to be understood.  All is riddle, and the key to a riddle is
another riddle.  There are as many pillows of illusion as flakes in a
snow-storm.  We wake from one dream into another dream.  The toys, to
be sure, are various, and are graduated in refinement to the quality
of the dupe.  The intellectual man requires a fine bait; the sots are
easily amused.  But everybody is drugged with his own frenzy, and the
pageant marches at all hours, with music and banner and badge.
        Amid the joyous troop who give in to the charivari, comes now
and then a sad-eyed boy, whose eyes lack the requisite refractions to
clothe the show in due glory, and who is afflicted with a tendency to
trace home the glittering miscellany of fruits and flowers to one
root.  Science is a search after identity, and the scientific whim is
lurking in all corners.  At the State Fair, a friend of mine
complained that all the varieties of fancy pears in our orchards seem
to have been selected by somebody who had a whim for a particular
kind of pear, and only cultivated such as had that perfume; they were
all alike.  And I remember the quarrel of another youth with the
confectioners, that, when he racked his wit to choose the best
comfits in the shops, in all the endless varieties of sweetmeat he
could only find three flavors, or two.  What then?  Pears and cakes
are good for something; and because you, unluckily, have an eye or
nose too keen, why need you spoil the comfort which the rest of us
find in them?  I knew a humorist, who, in a good deal of rattle, had
a grain or two of sense.  He shocked the company by maintaining that
the attributes of God were two, -- power and risibility; and that it
was the duty of every pious man to keep up the comedy.  And I have
known gentlemen of great stake in the community, but whose sympathies
were cold, -- presidents of colleges, and governors, and senators, --
who held themselves bound to sign every temperance pledge, and act
with Bible societies, and missions, and peace-makers, and cry
_Hist-a-boy!_ to every good dog.  We must not carry comity too far,
but we all have kind impulses in this direction.  When the boys come
into my yard for leave to gather horse-chestnuts, I own I enter into
Nature's game, and affect to grant the permission reluctantly,
fearing that any moment they will find out the imposture of that
showy chaff.  But this tenderness is quite unnecessary; the
enchantments are laid on very thick.  Their young life is thatched
with them.  Bare and grim to tears is the lot of the children in the
hovel I saw yesterday; yet not the less they hung it round with
frippery romance, like the children of the happiest fortune, and
talked of "the dear cottage where so many joyful hours had flown."
Well, this thatching of hovels is the custom of the country.  Women,
more than all, are the element and kingdom of illusion.  Being
fascinated, they fascinate.  They see through Claude-Lorraines.  And
how dare any one, if he could, pluck away the _coulisses_, stage
effects, and ceremonies, by which they live?  Too pathetic, too
pitiable, is the region of affection, and its atmosphere always
liable to _mirage_.
        We are not very much to blame for our bad marriages.  We live
amid hallucinations; and this especial trap is laid to trip up our
feet with, and all are tripped up first or last.  But the mighty
Mother who had been so sly with us, as if she felt that she owed us
some indemnity, insinuates into the Pandora-box of marriage some deep
and serious benefits, and some great joys.  We find a delight in the
beauty and happiness of children, that makes the heart too big for
the body.  In the worst-assorted connections there is ever some
mixture of true marriage.  Teague and his jade get some just
relations of mutual respect, kindly observation, and fostering of
each other, learn something, and would carry themselves wiselier, if
they were now to begin.
        'Tis fine for us to point at one or another fine madman, as if
there were any exempts.  The scholar in his library is none.  I, who
have all my life heard any number of orations and debates, read poems
and miscellaneous books, conversed with many geniuses, am still the
victim of any new page; and, if Marmaduke, or Hugh, or Moosehead, or
any other, invent a new style or mythology, I fancy that the world
will be all brave and right, if dressed in these colors, which I had
not thought of.  Then at once I will daub with this new paint; but it
will not stick.  'Tis like the cement which the peddler sells at the
door; he makes broken crockery hold with it, but you can never buy of
him a bit of the cement which will make it hold when he is gone.
        Men who make themselves felt in the world avail themselves of a
certain fate in their constitution, which they know how to use.  But
they never deeply interest us, unless they lift a corner of the
curtain, or betray never so slightly their penetration of what is
behind it.  'Tis the charm of practical men, that outside of their
practicality are a certain poetry and play, as if they led the good
horse Power by the bridle, and preferred to walk, though they can
ride so fiercely.  Bonaparte is intellectual, as well as Caesar; and
the best soldiers, sea-captains, and railway men have a gentleness,
when off duty; a good-natured admission that there are illusions, and
who shall say that he is not their sport?  We stigmatize the
cast-iron fellows, who cannot so detach themselves, as
"dragon-ridden," "thunder-stricken," and fools of fate, with whatever
powers endowed.
        Since our tuition is through emblems and indirections, 'tis
well to know that there is method in it, a fixed scale, and rank
above rank in the phantasms.  We begin low with coarse masks, and
rise to the most subtle and beautiful.  The red men told Columbus,
"they had an herb which took away fatigue;" but he found the illusion
of "arriving from the east at the Indies" more composing to his lofty
spirit than any tobacco.  Is not our faith in the impenetrability of
matter more sedative than narcotics?  You play with jackstraws,
balls, bowls, horse and gun, estates and politics; but there are
finer games before you.  Is not time a pretty toy?  Life will show
you masks that are worth all your carnivals.  Yonder mountain must
migrate into your mind.  The fine star-dust and nebulous blur in
Orion, "the portentous year of Mizar and Alcor," must come down and
be dealt with in your household thought.  What if you shall come to
discern that the play and playground of all this pompous history are
radiations from yourself, and that the sun borrows his beams?  What
terrible questions we are learning to ask!  The former men believed
in magic, by which temples, cities, and men were swallowed up, and
all trace of them gone.  We are coming on the secret of a magic which
sweeps out of men's minds all vestige of theism and beliefs which
they and their fathers held and were framed upon.
