
        There are deceptions of the senses, deceptions of the passions,
and the structural, beneficent illusions of sentiment and of the
intellect.  There is the illusion of love, which attributes to the
beloved person all which that person shares with his or her family,
sex, age, or condition, nay, with the human mind itself.  'Tis these
which the lover loves, and Anna Matilda gets the credit of them.  As
if one shut up always in a tower, with one window, through which the
face of heaven and earth could be seen, should fancy that all the
marvels he beheld belonged to that window.  There is the illusion of
time, which is very deep; who has disposed of it? or come to the
conviction that what seems the _succession_ of thought is only the
distribution of wholes into causal series?  The intellect sees that
every atom carries the whole of Nature; that the mind opens to
omnipotence; that, in the endless striving and ascents, the
metamorphosis is entire, so that the soul doth not know itself in its
own act, when that act is perfected.  There is illusion that shall
deceive even the elect.  There is illusion that shall deceive even
the performer of the miracle.  Though he make his body, he denies
that he makes it.  Though the world exist from thought, thought is
daunted in presence of the world.  One after the other we accept the
mental laws, still resisting those which follow, which however must
be accepted.  But all our concessions only compel us to new
profusion.  And what avails it that science has come to treat space
and time as simply forms of thought, and the material world as
hypothetical, and withal our pretension of _property_ and even of
self-hood are fading with the rest, if, at last, even our thoughts
are not finalities; but the incessant flowing and ascension reach
these also, and each thought which yesterday was a finality, to-day
is yielding to a larger generalization?
        With such volatile elements to work in, 'tis no wonder if our
estimates are loose and floating.  We must work and affirm, but we
have no guess of the value of what we say or do.  The cloud is now as
big as your hand, and now it covers a county.  That story of Thor,
who was set to drain the drinking-horn in Asgard, and to wrestle with
the old woman, and to run with the runner Lok, and presently found
that he had been drinking up the sea, and wrestling with Time, and
racing with Thought, describes us who are contending, amid these
seeming trifles, with the supreme energies of Nature.  We fancy we
have fallen into bad company and squalid condition, low debts,
shoe-bills, broken glass to pay for, pots to buy, butcher's meat,
sugar, milk, and coal.  `Set me some great task, ye gods! and I will
show my spirit.' `Not so,' says the good Heaven; `plod and plough,
vamp your old coats and hats, weave a shoestring; great affairs and
the best wine by and by.' Well, 'tis all phantasm; and if we weave a
yard of tape in all humility, and as well as we can, long hereafter
we shall see it was no cotton tape at all, but some galaxy which we
braided, and that the threads were Time and Nature.
        We cannot write the order of the variable winds.  How can we
penetrate the law of our shifting moods and susceptibility?  Yet they
differ as all and nothing.  Instead of the firmament of yesterday,
which our eyes require, it is to-day an eggshell which coops us in;
we cannot even see what or where our stars of destiny are.  From day
to day, the capital facts of human life are hidden from our eyes.
Suddenly the mist rolls up, and reveals them, and we think how much
good time is gone, that might have been saved, had any hint of these
things been shown.  A sudden rise in the road shows us the system of
mountains, and all the summits, which have been just as near us all
the year, but quite out of mind.  But these alternations are not
without their order, and we are parties to our various fortune.  If
life seem a succession of dreams, yet poetic justice is done in
dreams also.  The visions of good men are good; it is the
undisciplined will that is whipped with bad thoughts and bad
fortunes.  When we break the laws, we lose our hold on the central
reality.  Like sick men in hospitals, we change only from bed to bed,
from one folly to another; and it cannot signify much what becomes of
such castaways, -- wailing, stupid, comatose creatures, -- lifted
from bed to bed, from the nothing of life to the nothing of death.
        In this kingdom of illusions we grope eagerly for stays and
foundations.  There is none but a strict and faithful dealing at
home, and a severe barring out of all duplicity or illusion there.
Whatever games are played with us, we must play no games with
ourselves, but deal in our privacy with the last honesty and truth.
I look upon the simple and childish virtues of veracity and honesty
as the root of all that is sublime in character.  Speak as you think,
be what you are, pay your debts of all kinds.  I prefer to be owned
as sound and solvent, and my word as good as my bond, and to be what
cannot be skipped, or dissipated, or undermined, to all the _eclat_
in the universe.  This reality is the foundation of friendship,
religion, poetry, and art.  At the top or at the bottom of all
illusions, I set the cheat which still leads us to work and live for
appearances, in spite of our conviction, in all sane hours, that it
is what we really are that avails with friends, with strangers, and
with fate or fortune.
        One would think from the talk of men, that riches and poverty
were a great matter; and our civilization mainly respects it.  But
the Indians say, that they do not think the white man with his brow
of care, always toiling, afraid of heat and cold, and keeping within
doors, has any advantage of them.  The permanent interest of every
man is, never to be in a false position, but to have the weight of
Nature to back him in all that he does.  Riches and poverty are a
thick or thin costume; and our life -- the life of all of us --
identical.  For we transcend the circumstance continually, and taste
the real quality of existence; as in our employments, which only
differ in the manipulations, but express the same laws; or in our
thoughts, which wear no silks, and taste no ice-creams.  We see God
face to face every hour, and know the savor of Nature.
        The early Greek philosophers Heraclitus and Xenophanes measured
their force on this problem of identity.  Diogenes of Apollonia said,
that unless the atoms were made of one stuff, they could never blend
and act with one another.  But the Hindoos, in their sacred writings,
express the liveliest feeling, both of the essential identity, and of
that illusion which they conceive variety to be.  "The notions, `_I
am_,' and `_This is mine_,' which influence mankind, are but
delusions of the mother of the world.  Dispel, O Lord of all
creatures! the conceit of knowledge which proceeds from ignorance."
And the beatitude of man they hold to lie in being freed from
fascination.
        The intellect is stimulated by the statement of truth in a
trope, and the will by clothing the laws of life in illusions.  But
the unities of Truth and of Right are not broken by the disguise.
There need never be any confusion in these.  In a crowded life of
many parts and performers, on a stage of nations, or in the obscurest
hamlet in Maine or California, the same elements offer the same
choices to each new comer, and, according to his election, he fixes
his fortune in absolute Nature.  It would be hard to put more mental
and moral philosophy than the Persians have thrown into a sentence:
--
        "Fooled thou must be, though wisest of the wise:
        Then be the fool of virtue, not of vice."
 
        There is no chance, and no anarchy, in the universe.  All is
system and gradation.  Every god is there sitting in his sphere.  The
young mortal enters the hall of the firmament: there is he alone with
them alone, they pouring on him benedictions and gifts, and beckoning
him up to their thrones.  On the instant, and incessantly, fall
snow-storms of illusions.  He fancies himself in a vast crowd which
sways this way and that, and whose movement and doings he must obey:
he fancies himself poor, orphaned, insignificant.  The mad crowd
drives hither and thither, now furiously commanding this thing to be
done, now that.  What is he that he should resist their will, and
think or act for himself?  Every moment, new changes, and new showers
of deceptions, to baffle and distract him.  And when, by and by, for
an instant, the air clears, and the cloud lifts a little, there are
the gods still sitting around him on their thrones, -- they alone
with him alone.
