
 
        The annual slaughter from typhus far exceeds that of war; but
right drainage destroys typhus.  The plague in the sea-service from
scurvy is healed by lemon juice and other diets portable or
procurable: the depopulation by cholera and small-pox is ended by
drainage and vaccination; and every other pest is not less in the
chain of cause and effect, and may be fought off.  And, whilst art
draws out the venom, it commonly extorts some benefit from the
vanquished enemy.  The mischievous torrent is taught to drudge for
man: the wild beasts he makes useful for food, or dress, or labor;
the chemic explosions are controlled like his watch.  These are now
the steeds on which he rides.  Man moves in all modes, by legs of
horses, by wings of wind, by steam, by gas of balloon, by
electricity, and stands on tiptoe threatening to hunt the eagle in
his own element.  There's nothing he will not make his carrier.
        Steam was, till the other day, the devil which we dreaded.
Every pot made by any human potter or brazier had a hole in its
cover, to let off the enemy, lest he should lift pot and roof, and
carry the house away.  But the Marquis of Worcester, Watt, and Fulton
bethought themselves, that, where was power, was not devil, but was
God; that it must be availed of, and not by any means let off and
wasted.  Could he lift pots and roofs and houses so handily? he was
the workman they were in search of.  He could be used to lift away,
chain, and compel other devils, far more reluctant and dangerous,
namely, cubic miles of earth, mountains, weight or resistance of
water, machinery, and the labors of all men in the world; and time he
shall lengthen, and shorten space.
        It has not fared much otherwise with higher kinds of steam.
The opinion of the million was the terror of the world, and it was
attempted, either to dissipate it, by amusing nations, or to pile it
over with strata of society, -- a layer of soldiers; over that, a
layer of lords; and a king on the top; with clamps and hoops of
castles, garrisons, and police.  But, sometimes, the religious
principle would get in, and burst the hoops, and rive every mountain
laid on top of it.  The Fultons and Watts of politics, believing in
unity, saw that it was a power, and, by satisfying it, (as justice
satisfies everybody,) through a different disposition of society, --
grouping it on a level, instead of piling it into a mountain, -- they
have contrived to make of his terror the most harmless and energetic
form of a State.
        Very odious, I confess, are the lessons of Fate.  Who likes to
have a dapper phrenologist pronouncing on his fortunes?  Who likes to
believe that he has hidden in his skull, spine, and pelvis, all the
vices of a Saxon or Celtic race, which will be sure to pull him down,
-- with what grandeur of hope and resolve he is fired, -- into a
selfish, huckstering, servile, dodging animal?  A learned physician
tells us, the fact is invariable with the Neapolitan, that, when
mature, he assumes the forms of the unmistakable scoundrel.  That is
a little overstated, -- but may pass.
        But these are magazines and arsenals.  A man must thank his
defects, and stand in some terror of his talents.  A transcendent
talent draws so largely on his forces, as to lame him; a defect pays
him revenues on the other side.  The sufferance, which is the badge
of the Jew, has made him, in these days, the ruler of the rulers of
the earth.  If Fate is ore and quarry, if evil is good in the making,
if limitation is power that shall be, if calamities, oppositions, and
weights are wings and means, -- we are reconciled.
        Fate involves the melioration.  No statement of the Universe
can have any soundness, which does not admit its ascending effort.
The direction of the whole, and of the parts, is toward benefit, and
in proportion to the health.  Behind every individual, closes
organization: before him, opens liberty, -- the Better, the Best.
The first and worst races are dead.  The second and imperfect races
are dying out, or remain for the maturing of higher.  In the latest
race, in man, every generosity, every new perception, the love and
praise he extorts from his fellows, are certificates of advance out
of fate into freedom.  Liberation of the will from the sheaths and
clogs of organization which he has outgrown, is the end and aim of
this world.  Every calamity is a spur and valuable hint; and where
his endeavors do not yet fully avail, they tell as tendency.  The
whole circle of animal life, -- tooth against tooth, -- devouring
war, war for food, a yelp of pain and a grunt of triumph, until, at
last, the whole menagerie, the whole chemical mass is mellowed and
refined for higher use, -- pleases at a sufficient perspective.
        But to see how fate slides into freedom, and freedom into fate,
observe how far the roots of every creature run, or find, if you can,
a point where there is no thread of connection.  Our life is
consentaneous and far-related.  This knot of nature is so well tied,
that nobody was ever cunning enough to find the two ends.  Nature is
intricate, overlapped, interweaved, and endless.  Christopher Wren
said of the beautiful King's College chapel, "that, if anybody would
tell him where to lay the first stone, he would build such another."
But where shall we find the first atom in this house of man, which is
all consent, inosculation, and balance of parts?
        The web of relation is shown in _habitat_, shown in
hybernation.  When hybernation was observed, it was found, that,
whilst some animals became torpid in winter, others were torpid in
summer: hybernation then was a false name.  The _long sleep_ is not
an effect of cold, but is regulated by the supply of food proper to
the animal.  It becomes torpid when the fruit or prey it lives on is
not in season, and regains its activity when its food is ready.
