
        Eyes are found in light; ears in auricular air; feet on land;
fins in water; wings in air; and, each creature where it was meant to
be, with a mutual fitness.  Every zone has its own _Fauna_.  There is
adjustment between the animal and its food, its parasite, its enemy.
Balances are kept.  It is not allowed to diminish in numbers, nor to
exceed.  The like adjustments exist for man.  His food is cooked,
when he arrives; his coal in the pit; the house ventilated; the mud
of the deluge dried; his companions arrived at the same hour, and
awaiting him with love, concert, laughter, and tears.  These are
coarse adjustments, but the invisible are not less.  There are more
belongings to every creature than his air and his food.  His
instincts must be met, and he has predisposing power that bends and
fits what is near him to his use.  He is not possible until the
invisible things are right for him, as well as the visible.  Of what
changes, then, in sky and earth, and in finer skies and earths, does
the appearance of some Dante or Columbus apprise us!
        How is this effected?  Nature is no spendthrift, but takes the
shortest way to her ends.  As the general says to his soldiers, "if
you want a fort, build a fort," so nature makes every creature do its
own work and get its living, -- is it planet, animal, or tree.  The
planet makes itself.  The animal cell makes itself; -- then, what it
wants.  Every creature, -- wren or dragon, -- shall make its own
lair.  As soon as there is life, there is self-direction, and
absorbing and using of material.  Life is freedom, -- life in the
direct ratio of its amount.  You may be sure, the new-born man is not
inert.  Life works both voluntarily and supernaturally in its
neighborhood.  Do you suppose, he can be estimated by his weight in
pounds, or, that he is contained in his skin, -- this reaching,
radiating, jaculating fellow?  The smallest candle fills a mile with
its rays, and the papillae of a man run out to every star.
        When there is something to be done, the world knows how to get
it done.  The vegetable eye makes leaf, pericarp, root, bark, or
thorn, as the need is; the first cell converts itself into stomach,
mouth, nose, or nail, according to the want: the world throws its
life into a hero or a shepherd; and puts him where he is wanted.
Dante and Columbus were Italians, in their time: they would be
Russians or Americans to-day.  Things ripen, new men come.  The
adaptation is not capricious.  The ulterior aim, the purpose beyond
itself, the correlation by which planets subside and crystallize,
then animate beasts and men, will not stop, but will work into finer
particulars, and from finer to finest.
        The secret of the world is, the tie between person and event.
Person makes event, and event person.  The "times," "the age," what
is that, but a few profound persons and a few active persons who
epitomize the times?  -- Goethe, Hegel, Metternich, Adams, Calhoun,
Guizot, Peel, Cobden, Kossuth, Rothschild, Astor, Brunel, and the
rest.  The same fitness must be presumed between a man and the time
and event, as between the sexes, or between a race of animals and the
food it eats, or the inferior races it uses.  He thinks his fate
alien, because the copula is hidden.  But the soul contains the event
that shall befall it, for the event is only the actualization of its
thoughts; and what we pray to ourselves for is always granted.  The
event is the print of your form.  It fits you like your skin.  What
each does is proper to him.  Events are the children of his body and
mind.  We learn that the soul of Fate is the soul of us, as Hafiz
sings,
        Alas! till now I had not known,
        My guide and fortune's guide are one.
 
        All the toys that infatuate men, and which they play for, --
houses, land, money, luxury, power, fame, are the selfsame thing,
with a new gauze or two of illusion overlaid.  And of all the drums
and rattles by which men are made willing to have their heads broke,
and are led out solemnly every morning to parade, -- the most
admirable is this by which we are brought to believe that events are
arbitrary, and independent of actions.  At the conjuror's, we detect
the hair by which he moves his puppet, but we have not eyes sharp
enough to descry the thread that ties cause and effect.
        Nature magically suits the man to his fortunes, by making these
the fruit of his character.  Ducks take to the water, eagles to the
sky, waders to the sea margin, hunters to the forest, clerks to
counting-rooms, soldiers to the frontier.  Thus events grow on the
same stem with persons; are sub-persons.  The pleasure of life is
according to the man that lives it, and not according to the work or
the place.  Life is an ecstasy.  We know what madness belongs to
love, -- what power to paint a vile object in hues of heaven.  As
insane persons are indifferent to their dress, diet, and other
accommodations, and, as we do in dreams, with equanimity, the most
absurd acts, so, a drop more of wine in our cup of life will
reconcile us to strange company and work.  Each creature puts forth
from itself its own condition and sphere, as the slug sweats out its
slimy house on the pear-leaf, and the woolly aphides on the apple
perspire their own bed, and the fish its shell.  In youth, we clothe
ourselves with rainbows, and go as brave as the zodiac.  In age, we
put out another sort of perspiration, -- gout, fever, rheumatism,
caprice, doubt, fretting, and avarice.
        A man's fortunes are the fruit of his character.  A man's
friends are his magnetisms.  We go to Herodotus and Plutarch for
examples of Fate; but we are examples.  _"Quisque suos patimur
manes."_ The tendency of every man to enact all that is in his
constitution is expressed in the old belief, that the efforts which
we make to escape from our destiny only serve to lead us into it: and
I have noticed, a man likes better to be complimented on his
position, as the proof of the last or total excellence, than on his
merits.
        A man will see his character emitted in the events that seem to
meet, but which exude from and accompany him.  Events expand with the
character.  As once he found himself among toys, so now he plays a
part in colossal systems, and his growth is declared in his ambition,
his companions, and his performance.  He looks like a piece of luck,
but is a piece of causation; -- the mosaic, angulated and ground to
fit into the gap he fills.  Hence in each town there is some man who
is, in his brain and performance, an explanation of the tillage,
production, factories, banks, churches, ways of living, and society,
of that town.  If you do not chance to meet him, all that you see
will leave you a little puzzled: if you see him, it will become
plain.  We know in Massachusetts who built New Bedford, who built
Lynn, Lowell, Lawrence, Clinton, Fitchburg, Holyoke, Portland, and
many another noisy mart.  Each of these men, if they were
transparent, would seem to you not so much men, as walking cities,
and, wherever you put them, they would build one.
