
        History is the action and reaction of these two, -- Nature and
Thought; -- two boys pushing each other on the curb-stone of the
pavement.  Everything is pusher or pushed: and matter and mind are in
perpetual tilt and balance, so.  Whilst the man is weak, the earth
takes up him.  He plants his brain and affections.  By and by he will
take up the earth, and have his gardens and vineyards in the
beautiful order and productiveness of his thought.  Every solid in
the universe is ready to become fluid on the approach of the mind,
and the power to flux it is the measure of the mind.  If the wall
remain adamant, it accuses the want of thought.  To a subtler force,
it will stream into new forms, expressive of the character of the
mind.  What is the city in which we sit here, but an aggregate of
incongruous materials, which have obeyed the will of some man?  The
granite was reluctant, but his hands were stronger, and it came.
Iron was deep in the ground, and well combined with stone; but could
not hide from his fires.  Wood, lime, stuffs, fruits, gums, were
dispersed over the earth and sea, in vain.  Here they are, within
reach of every man's day-labor, -- what he wants of them.  The whole
world is the flux of matter over the wires of thought to the poles or
points where it would build.  The races of men rise out of the ground
preoccupied with a thought which rules them, and divided into parties
ready armed and angry to fight for this metaphysical abstraction.
The quality of the thought differences the Egyptian and the Roman,
the Austrian and the American.  The men who come on the stage at one
period are all found to be related to each other.  Certain ideas are
in the air.  We are all impressionable, for we are made of them; all
impressionable, but some more than others, and these first express
them.  This explains the curious contemporaneousness of inventions
and discoveries.  The truth is in the air, and the most
impressionable brain will announce it first, but all will announce it
a few minutes later.  So women, as most susceptible, are the best
index of the coming hour.  So the great man, that is, the man most
imbued with the spirit of the time, is the impressionable man, -- of
a fibre irritable and delicate, like iodine to light.  He feels the
infinitesimal attractions.  His mind is righter than others, because
he yields to a current so feeble as can be felt only by a needle
delicately poised.
        The correlation is shown in defects.  Moller, in his Essay on
Architecture, taught that the building which was fitted accurately to
answer its end, would turn out to be beautiful, though beauty had not
been intended.  I find the like unity in human structures rather
virulent and pervasive; that a crudity in the blood will appear in
the argument; a hump in the shoulder will appear in the speech and
handiwork.  If his mind could be seen, the hump would be seen.  If a
man has a seesaw in his voice, it will run into his sentences, into
his poem, into the structure of his fable, into his speculation, into
his charity.  And, as every man is hunted by his own daemon, vexed by
his own disease, this checks all his activity.
        So each man, like each plant, has his parasites.  A strong,
astringent, bilious nature has more truculent enemies than the slugs
and moths that fret my leaves.  Such an one has curculios, borers,
knife-worms: a swindler ate him first, then a client, then a quack,
then smooth, plausible gentlemen, bitter and selfish as Moloch.
 
        This correlation really existing can be divined.  If the
threads are there, thought can follow and show them.  Especially when
a soul is quick and docile; as Chaucer sings,
        "Or if the soul of proper kind
        Be so perfect as men find,
        That it wot what is to come,
        And that he warneth all and some
        Of every of their aventures,
        By previsions or figures;
        But that our flesh hath not might
        It to understand aright
        For it is warned too darkly." --
 
        Some people are made up of rhyme, coincidence, omen,
periodicity, and presage: they meet the person they seek; what their
companion prepares to say to them, they first say to him; and a
hundred signs apprise them of what is about to befall.
        Wonderful intricacy in the web, wonderful constancy in the
design this vagabond life admits.  We wonder how the fly finds its
mate, and yet year after year we find two men, two women, without
legal or carnal tie, spend a great part of their best time within a
few feet of each other.  And the moral is, that what we seek we shall
find; what we flee from flees from us; as Goethe said, "what we wish
for in youth, comes in heaps on us in old age," too often cursed with
the granting of our prayer: and hence the high caution, that, since
we are sure of having what we wish, we beware to ask only for high
things.
        One key, one solution to the mysteries of human condition, one
solution to the old knots of fate, freedom, and foreknowledge,
exists, the propounding, namely, of the double consciousness.  A man
must ride alternately on the horses of his private and his public
nature, as the equestrians in the circus throw themselves nimbly from
horse to horse, or plant one foot on the back of one, and the other
foot on the back of the other.  So when a man is the victim of his
fate, has sciatica in his loins, and cramp in his mind; a club-foot
and a club in his wit; a sour face, and a selfish temper; a strut in
his gait, and a conceit in his affection; or is ground to powder by
the vice of his race; he is to rally on his relation to the Universe,
which his ruin benefits.  Leaving the daemon who suffers, he is to
take sides with the Deity who secures universal benefit by his pain.
        To offset the drag of temperament and race, which pulls down,
learn this lesson, namely, that by the cunning copresence of two
elements, which is throughout nature, whatever lames or paralyzes
you, draws in with it the divinity, in some form, to repay.  A good
intention clothes itself with sudden power.  When a god wishes to
ride, any chip or pebble will bud and shoot out winged feet, and
serve him for a horse.
