
        Let us build altars to the Blessed Unity which holds nature and
souls in perfect solution, and compels every atom to serve an
universal end.  I do not wonder at a snow-flake, a shell, a summer
landscape, or the glory of the stars; but at the necessity of beauty
under which the universe lies; that all is and must be pictorial;
that the rainbow, and the curve of the horizon, and the arch of the
blue vault are only results from the organism of the eye.  There is
no need for foolish amateurs to fetch me to admire a garden of
flowers, or a sun-gilt cloud, or a waterfall, when I cannot look
without seeing splendor and grace.  How idle to choose a random
sparkle here or there, when the indwelling necessity plants the rose
of beauty on the brow of chaos, and discloses the central intention
of Nature to be harmony and joy.
        Let us build altars to the Beautiful Necessity.  If we thought
men were free in the sense, that, in a single exception one
fantastical will could prevail over the law of things, it were all
one as if a child's hand could pull down the sun.  If, in the least
particular, one could derange the order of nature, -- who would
accept the gift of life?
        Let us build altars to the Beautiful Necessity, which secures
that all is made of one piece; that plaintiff and defendant, friend
and enemy, animal and planet, food and eater, are of one kind.  In
astronomy, is vast space, but no foreign system; in geology, vast
time, but the same laws as to-day.  Why should we be afraid of
Nature, which is no other than "philosophy and theology embodied"?
Why should we fear to be crushed by savage elements, we who are made
up of the same elements?  Let us build to the Beautiful Necessity,
which makes man brave in believing that he cannot shun a danger that
is appointed, nor incur one that is not; to the Necessity which
rudely or softly educates him to the perception that there are no
contingencies; that Law rules throughout existence, a Law which is
not intelligent but intelligence, -- not personal nor impersonal, --
it disdains words and passes understanding; it dissolves persons; it
vivifies nature; yet solicits the pure in heart to draw on all its
omnipotence.
 
        II
 
        POWER
 
        His tongue was framed to music,
        And his hand was armed with skill,
        His face was the mould of beauty,
        And his heart the throne of will.
 
 
        _Power_
        There is not yet any inventory of a man's faculties, any more
than a bible of his opinions.  Who shall set a limit to the influence
of a human being?  There are men, who, by their sympathetic
attractions, carry nations with them, and lead the activity of the
human race.  And if there be such a tie, that, wherever the mind of
man goes, nature will accompany him, perhaps there are men whose
magnetisms are of that force to draw material and elemental powers,
and, where they appear, immense instrumentalities organize around
them.  Life is a search after power; and this is an element with
which the world is so saturated, -- there is no chink or crevice in
which it is not lodged, -- that no honest seeking goes unrewarded.  A
man should prize events and possessions as the ore in which this fine
mineral is found; and he can well afford to let events and
possessions, and the breath of the body go, if their value has been
added to him in the shape of power.  If he have secured the elixir,
he can spare the wide gardens from which it was distilled.  A
cultivated man, wise to know and bold to perform, is the end to which
nature works, and the education of the will is the flowering and
result of all this geology and astronomy.
        All successful men have agreed in one thing, -- they were
_causationists_.  They believed that things went not by luck, but by
law; that there was not a weak or a cracked link in the chain that
joins the first and last of things.  A belief in causality, or strict
connection between every trifle and the principle of being, and, in
consequence, belief in compensation, or, that nothing is got for
nothing, -- characterizes all valuable minds, and must control every
effort that is made by an industrious one.  The most valiant men are
the best believers in the tension of the laws.  "All the great
captains," said Bonaparte, "have performed vast achievements by
conforming with the rules of the art, -- by adjusting efforts to
obstacles."
        The key to the age may be this, or that, or the other, as the
young orators describe; -- the key to all ages is -- Imbecility;
imbecility in the vast majority of men, at all times, and, even in
heroes, in all but certain eminent moments; victims of gravity,
custom, and fear.  This gives force to the strong, -- that the
multitude have no habit of self-reliance or original action.
        We must reckon success a constitutional trait.  Courage, -- the
old physicians taught, (and their meaning holds, if their physiology
is a little mythical,) -- courage, or the degree of life, is as the
degree of circulation of the blood in the arteries.  "During passion,
anger, fury, trials of strength, wrestling, fighting, a large amount
of blood is collected in the arteries, the maintenance of bodily
strength requiring it, and but little is sent into the veins.  This
condition is constant with intrepid persons." Where the arteries hold
their blood, is courage and adventure possible.  Where they pour it
unrestrained into the veins, the spirit is low and feeble.  For
performance of great mark, it needs extraordinary health.  If Eric is
in robust health, and has slept well, and is at the top of his
condition, and thirty years old, at his departure from Greenland, he
will steer west, and his ships will reach Newfoundland.  But take out
Eric, and put in a stronger and bolder man, -- Biorn, or Thorfin, --
and the ships will, with just as much ease, sail six hundred, one
thousand, fifteen hundred miles further, and reach Labrador and New
England.  There is no chance in results.  With adults, as with
children, one class enter cordially into the game, and whirl with the
whirling world; the others have cold hands, and remain bystanders; or
are only dragged in by the humor and vivacity of those who can carry
a dead weight.  The first wealth is health.  Sickness is
poor-spirited, and cannot serve any one: it must husband its
resources to live.  But health or fulness answers its own ends, and
has to spare, runs over, and inundates the neighborhoods and creeks
of other men's necessities.
