
        All power is of one kind, a sharing of the nature of the world.
The mind that is parallel with the laws of nature will be in the
current of events, and strong with their strength.  One man is made
of the same stuff of which events are made; is in sympathy with the
course of things; can predict it.  Whatever befalls, befalls him
first; so that he is equal to whatever shall happen.  A man who knows
men, can talk well on politics, trade, law, war, religion.  For,
everywhere, men are led in the same manners.
 
        The advantage of a strong pulse is not to be supplied by any
labor, art, or concert.  It is like the climate, which easily rears a
crop, which no glass, or irrigation, or tillage, or manures, can
elsewhere rival.  It is like the opportunity of a city like New York,
or Constantinople, which needs no diplomacy to force capital or
genius or labor to it.  They come of themselves, as the waters flow
to it.  So a broad, healthy, massive understanding seems to lie on
the shore of unseen rivers, of unseen oceans, which are covered with
barks, that, night and day, are drifted to this point.  That is
poured into its lap, which other men lie plotting for.  It is in
everybody's secret; anticipates everybody's discovery; and if it do
not command every fact of the genius and the scholar, it is because
it is large and sluggish, and does not think them worth the exertion
which you do.
        This affirmative force is in one, and is not in another, as one
horse has the spring in him, and another in the whip.  "On the neck
of the young man," said Hafiz, "sparkles no gem so gracious as
enterprise." Import into any stationary district, as into an old
Dutch population in New York or Pennsylvania, or among the planters
of Virginia, a colony of hardy Yankees, with seething brains, heads
full of steam-hammer, pulley, crank, and toothed wheel, -- and
everything begins to shine with values.  What enhancement to all the
water and land in England, is the arrival of James Watt or Brunel!
In every company, there is not only the active and passive sex, but,
in both men and women, a deeper and more important _sex of mind_,
namely, the inventive or creative class of both men and women, and
the uninventive or accepting class.  Each _plus_ man represents his
set, and, if he have the accidental advantage of personal ascendency,
-- which implies neither more nor less of talent, but merely the
temperamental or taming eye of a soldier or a schoolmaster, (which
one has, and one has not, as one has a black moustache and one a
blond,) then quite easily and without envy or resistance, all his
coadjutors and feeders will admit his right to absorb them.  The
merchant works by book-keeper and cashier; the lawyer's authorities
are hunted up by clerks; the geologist reports the surveys of his
subalterns; Commander Wilkes appropriates the results of all the
naturalists attached to the Expedition; Thorwaldsen's statue is
finished by stone-cutters; Dumas has journeymen; and Shakspeare was
theatre-manager, and used the labor of many young men, as well as the
playbooks.
        There is always room for a man of force, and he makes room for
many.  Society is a troop of thinkers, and the best heads among them
take the best places.  A feeble man can see the farms that are fenced
and tilled, the houses that are built.  The strong man sees the
possible houses and farms.  His eye makes estates, as fast as the sun
breeds clouds.
        When a new boy comes into school, when a man travels, and
encounters strangers every day, or, when into any old club a new
comer is domesticated, that happens which befalls, when a strange ox
is driven into a pen or pasture where cattle are kept; there is at
once a trial of strength between the best pair of horns and the new
comer, and it is settled thenceforth which is the leader.  So now,
there is a measuring of strength, very courteous, but decisive, and
an acquiescence thenceforward when these two meet.  Each reads his
fate in the other's eyes.  The weaker party finds, that none of his
information or wit quite fits the occasion.  He thought he knew this
or that: he finds that he omitted to learn the end of it.  Nothing
that he knows will quite hit the mark, whilst all the rival's arrows
are good, and well thrown.  But if he knew all the facts in the
encyclopaedia, it would not help him: for this is an affair of
presence of mind, of attitude, of aplomb: the opponent has the sun
and wind, and, in every cast, the choice of weapon and mark; and,
when he himself is matched with some other antagonist, his own shafts
fly well and hit.  'Tis a question of stomach and constitution.  The
second man is as good as the first, -- perhaps better; but has not
stoutness or stomach, as the first has, and so his wit seems
over-fine or under-fine.
        Health is good, -- power, life, that resists disease, poison,
and all enemies, and is conservative, as well as creative.  Here is
question, every spring, whether to graft with wax, or whether with
clay; whether to whitewash or to potash, or to prune; but the one
point is the thrifty tree.  A good tree, that agrees with the soil,
will grow in spite of blight, or bug, or pruning, or neglect, by
night and by day, in all weathers and all treatments.  Vivacity,
leadership, must be had, and we are not allowed to be nice in
choosing.  We must fetch the pump with dirty water, if clean cannot
be had.  If we will make bread, we must have contagion, yeast,
emptyings, or what not, to induce fermentation into the dough: as the
torpid artist seeks inspiration at any cost, by virtue or by vice, by
friend or by fiend, by prayer or by wine.  And we have a certain
instinct, that where is great amount of life, though gross and
peccant, it has its own checks and purifications, and will be found
at last in harmony with moral laws.
        We watch in children with pathetic interest, the degree in
which they possess recuperative force.  When they are hurt by us, or
by each other, or go to the bottom of the class, or miss the annual
prizes, or are beaten in the game, -- if they lose heart, and
remember the mischance in their chamber at home, they have a serious
check.  But if they have the buoyancy and resistance that preoccupies
them with new interest in the new moment, -- the wounds cicatrize,
and the fibre is the tougher for the hurt.
        One comes to value this _plus_ health, when he sees that all
difficulties vanish before it.  A timid man listening to the
alarmists in Congress, and in the newspapers, and observing the
profligacy of party, -- sectional interests urged with a fury which
shuts its eyes to consequences, with a mind made up to desperate
extremities, ballot in one hand, and rifle in the other, -- might
easily believe that he and his country have seen their best days, and
he hardens himself the best he can against the coming ruin.  But,
after this has been foretold with equal confidence fifty times, and
government six per cents have not declined a quarter of a mill, he
discovers that the enormous elements of strength which are here in
play, make our politics unimportant.  Personal power, freedom, and
the resources of nature strain every faculty of every citizen.  We
prosper with such vigor, that, like thrifty trees, which grow in
spite of ice, lice, mice, and borers, so we do not suffer from the
profligate swarms that fatten on the national treasury.  The huge
animals nourish huge parasites, and the rancor of the disease attests
the strength of the constitution.  The same energy in the Greek
_Demos_ drew the remark, that the evils of popular government appear
greater than they are; there is compensation for them in the spirit
and energy it awakens.  The rough and ready style which belongs to a
people of sailors, foresters, farmers, and mechanics, has its
advantages.  Power educates the potentate.  As long as our people
quote English standards they dwarf their own proportions.  A Western
lawyer of eminence said to me he wished it were a penal offence to
bring an English law-book into a court in this country, so pernicious
had he found in his experience our deference to English precedent.
The very word `commerce' has only an English meaning, and is pinched
to the cramp exigencies of English experience.  The commerce of
rivers, the commerce of railroads, and who knows but the commerce of
air-balloons, must add an American extension to the pond-hole of
admiralty.  As long as our people quote English standards, they will
miss the sovereignty of power; but let these rough riders, --
legislators in shirt-sleeves, -- Hoosier, Sucker, Wolverine, Badger,
-- or whatever hard head Arkansas, Oregon, or Utah sends, half
orator, half assassin, to represent its wrath and cupidity at
Washington, -- let these drive as they may; and the disposition of
territories and public lands, the necessity of balancing and keeping
at bay the snarling majorities of German, Irish, and of native
millions, will bestow promptness, address, and reason, at last, on
our buffalo-hunter, and authority and majesty of manners.  The
instinct of the people is right.  Men expect from good whigs, put
into office by the respectability of the country, much less skill to
deal with Mexico, Spain, Britain, or with our own malcontent members,
than from some strong transgressor, like Jefferson, or Jackson, who
first conquers his own government, and then uses the same genius to
conquer the foreigner.  The senators who dissented from Mr. Polk's
Mexican war, were not those who knew better, but those who, from
political position, could afford it; not Webster, but Benton and
Calhoun.
