   
   Added to these reminiscences my father, now dead, had several times
   crossed the Atlantic on business affairs, for he had been an importer in
   Broad-street. And of winter evenings in New York, by the well-remembered
   sea-coal fire in old Greenwich-street, he used to tell my brother and me
   of the monstrous waves at sea, mountain high; of the masts bending like
   twigs; and all about Havre, and Liverpool, and about going up into the
   ball of St. Paul's in London. Indeed, during my early life, most of my
   thoughts of the sea were connected with the land; but with fine old
   lands, full of mossy cathedrals and churches, and long, narrow, crooked
   streets without sidewalks, and lined with strange houses. And especially
   I tried hard to think how such places must look of rainy days and
   Saturday afternoons; and whether indeed they did have rainy days and
   Saturdays there, just as we did here; and whether the boys went to
   school there, and studied geography, and wore their shirt collars turned
   over, and tied with a black ribbon; and whether their papas allowed them
   to wear boots, instead of shoes, which I so much disliked, for boots
   looked so manly.
   As I grew older my thoughts took a larger flight, and I frequently fell
   into long reveries about distant voyages and travels, and thought how
   fine it would be, to be able to talk about remote and barbarous
   countries; with what reverence and wonder people would regard me, if I
   had just returned from the coast of Africa or New Zealand; how dark and
   romantic my sunburnt cheeks would look; how I would bring home with me
   foreign clothes of a rich fabric and princely make, and wear them up and
   down the streets, and how grocers' boys would turn back their heads to
   look at me, as I went by. For I very well remembered staring at a man
   myself, who was pointed out to me by my aunt one Sunday in Church, as
   the person who had been in Stony Arabia, and passed through strange
   adventures there, all of which with my own eyes I had read in the book
   which he wrote, an arid-looking book in a pale yellow cover.
   "See what big eyes he has," whispered my aunt, "they got so big, because
   when he was almost dead with famishing in the desert, he all at once
   caught sight of a date tree, with the ripe fruit hanging on it."
   Upon this, I stared at him till I thought his eyes were really of an
   uncommon size, and stuck out from his head like those of a lobster. I am
   sure my own eyes must have magnified as I stared. When church was out, I
   wanted my aunt to take me along and follow the traveler home. But she
   said the constables would take us up, if we did; and so I never saw this
   wonderful Arabian traveler again. But he long haunted me; and several
   times I dreamt of him, and thought his great eyes were grown still
   larger and rounder; and once I had a vision of the date tree.
   In course of time, my thoughts became more and more prone to dwell upon
   foreign things; and in a thousand ways I sought to gratify my tastes. We
   had several pieces of furniture in the house, which had been brought
   from Europe. These I examined again and again, wondering where the wood
   grew; whether the workmen who made them still survived, and what they
   could be doing with themselves now.
   Then we had several oil-paintings and rare old engravings of my
   father's, which he himself had bought in Paris, hanging up in the
   dining-room.
   Two of these were sea-pieces. One represented a fat-looking, smoky
   fishing-boat, with three whiskerandoes in red caps, and their browsers
   legs rolled up, hauling in a seine. There was high French-like land in
   one corner, and a tumble-down gray lighthouse surmounting it. The waves
   were toasted brown, and the whole picture looked mellow and old. I used
   to think a piece of it might taste good.
   The other represented three old-fashioned French men-of-war with high
   castles, like pagodas, on the bow and stern, such as you see in
   Froissart; and snug little turrets on top of the mast, full of little
   men, with something undefinable in their hands. All three were sailing
   through a bright-blue sea, blue as Sicily skies; and they were leaning
   over on their sides at a fearful angle; and they must have been going
   very fast, for the white spray was about the bows like a snow-storm.
   Then, we had two large green French portfolios of colored prints, more
   than I could lift at that age. Every Saturday my brothers and sisters
   used to get them out of the corner where they were kept, and spreading
   them on the floor, gaze at them with never-failing delight.
   They were of all sorts. Some were pictures of Versailles, its
   masquerades, its drawing-rooms, its fountains, and courts, and gardens,
   with long lines of thick foliage cut into fantastic doors and windows,
   and towers and pinnacles. Others were rural scenes, full of fine skies,
   pensive cows standing up to the knees in water, and shepherd-boys and
   cottages in the distance, half concealed in vineyards and vines.
   And others were pictures of natural history, representing rhinoceroses
   and elephants and spotted tigers; and above all there was a picture of a
   great whale, as big as a ship, stuck full of harpoons, and three boats
   sailing after it as fast as they could fly.
   Then, too, we had a large library-case, that stood in the hall; an old
   brown library-case, tall as a small house; it had a sort of basement,
   with large doors, and a lock and key; and higher up, there were glass
   doors, through which might be seen long rows of old books, that had been
   printed in Paris, and London, and Leipsic. There was a fine library
   edition of the Spectator, in six large volumes with gilded backs; and
   many a time I gazed at the word "London" on the title-page. And there
   was a copy of D'Alembert in French, and I wondered what a great man I
   would be, if by foreign travel I should ever be able to read straight
   along without stopping, out of that book, which now was a riddle to
   every one in the house but my father, whom I so much liked to hear talk
   French, as he sometimes did to a servant we had.
   That servant, too, I used to gaze at with wonder; for in answer to my
   incredulous cross-questions, he had over and over again assured me, that
   he had really been born in Paris. But this I never entirely believed;
   for it seemed so hard to comprehend, how a man who had been born in a
   foreign country, could be dwelling with me in our house in America.
   As years passed on, this continual dwelling upon foreign associations,
   bred in me a vague prophetic thought, that I was fated, one day or
   other, to be a great voyager; and that just as my father used to
   entertain strange gentlemen over their wine after dinner, I would
   hereafter be telling my own adventures to an eager auditory. And I have
   no doubt that this presentiment had something to do with bringing about
   my subsequent rovings.
   But that which perhaps more than any thing else, converted my vague
   dreamings and longings into a definite purpose of seeking my fortune on
   the sea, was an old-fashioned glass ship, about eighteen inches long,
   and of French manufacture, which my father, some thirty years before,
   had brought home from Hamburg as a present to a great-uncle of mine:
   Senator Wellingborough, who had died a member of Congress in the days of
   the old Constitution, and after whom I had the honor of being named.
   Upon the decease of the Senator, the ship was returned to the donor.
   It was kept in a square glass case, which was regularly dusted by one of
   my sisters every morning, and stood on a little claw-footed Dutch
   tea-table in one corner of the sitting-room. This ship, after being the
   admiration of my father's visitors in the capital, became the wonder and
   delight of all the people of the village where we now resided, many of
   whom used to call upon my mother, for no other purpose than to see the
   ship. And well did it repay the long and curious examinations which they
   were accustomed to give it.
   In the first place, every bit of it was glass, and that was a great
   wonder of itself; because the masts, yards, and ropes were made to
   resemble exactly the corresponding parts of a real vessel that could go
   to sea. She carried two tiers of black guns all along her two decks; and
   often I used to try to peep in at the portholes, to see what else was
   inside; but the holes were so small, and it looked so very dark indoors,
   that I could discover little or nothing; though, when I was very little,
   I made no doubt, that if I could but once pry open the hull, and break
   the glass all to pieces, I would infallibly light upon something
   wonderful, perhaps some gold guineas, of which I have always been in
   want, ever since I could remember. And often I used to feel a sort of
   insane desire to be the death of the glass ship, case, and all, in order
   to come at the plunder; and one day, throwing out some hint of the kind
   to my sisters, they ran to my mother in a great clamor; and after that,
   the ship was placed on the mantel-piece for a time, beyond my reach, and
   until I should recover my reason.
   I do not know how to account for this temporary madness of mine, unless
   it was, that I had been reading in a story-book about Captain Kidd's
   ship, that lay somewhere at the bottom of the Hudson near the Highlands,
   full of gold as it could be; and that a company of men were trying to
   dive down and get the treasure out of the hold, which no one had ever
   thought of doing before, though there she had lain for almost a hundred
   years.
   Not to speak of the tall masts, and yards, and rigging of this famous
   ship, among whose mazes of spun-glass I used to rove in imagination,
   till I grew dizzy at the main-truck, I will only make mention of the
   people on board of her. They, too, were all of glass, as beautiful
   little glass sailors as any body ever saw, with hats and shoes on, just
   like living men, and curious blue jackets with a sort of ruffle round
   the bottom. Four or five of these sailors were very nimble little chaps,
   and were mounting up the rigging with very long strides; but for all
   that, they never gained a single inch in the year, as I can take my
   oath.
   Another sailor was sitting astride of the spanker-boom, with his arms
   over his head, but I never could find out what that was for; a second
   was in the fore-top, with a coil of glass rigging over his shoulder; the
   cook, with a glass ax, was splitting wood near the fore-hatch; the
   steward, in a glass apron, was hurrying toward the cabin with a plate of
   glass pudding; and a glass dog, with a red mouth, was barking at him;
   while the captain in a glass cap was smoking a glass cigar on the
   quarterdeck. He was leaning against the bulwark, with one hand to his
   head; perhaps he was unwell, for he looked very glassy out of the eyes.
