   
   The name of this curious ship was La Reine, or The Queen, which was
   painted on her stern where any one might read it, among a crowd of glass
   dolphins and sea-horses carved there in a sort of semicircle.
   And this Queen rode undisputed mistress of a green glassy sea, some of
   whose waves were breaking over her bow in a wild way, I can tell you,
   and I used to be giving her up for lost and foundered every moment, till
   I grew older, and perceived that she was not in the slightest danger in
   the world.
   A good deal of dust, and fuzzy stuff like down, had in the course of
   many years worked through the joints of the case, in which the ship was
   kept, so as to cover all the sea with a light dash of white, which if
   any thing improved the general effect, for it looked like the foam and
   froth raised by the terrible gale the good Queen was battling against.
   So much for La Reine. We have her yet in the house, but many of her
   glass spars and ropes are now sadly shattered and broken,--but I will not
   have her mended; and her figurehead, a gallant warrior in a cocked-hat,
   lies pitching headforemost down into the trough of a calamitous sea
   under the bows--but I will not have him put on his legs again, till I get
   on my own; for between him and me there is a secret sympathy; and my
   sisters tell me, even yet, that he fell from his perch the very day I
   left home to go to sea on this my first voyage.
   II. REDBURN'S DEPARTURE FROM HOME
   It was with a heavy heart and full eyes, that my poor mother parted with
   me; perhaps she thought me an erring and a willful boy, and perhaps I
   was; but if I was, it had been a hardhearted world, and hard times that
   had made me so. I had learned to think much and bitterly before my time;
   all my young mounting dreams of glory had left me; and at that early
   age, I was as unambitious as a man of sixty.
   Yes, I will go to sea; cut my kind uncles and aunts, and sympathizing
   patrons, and leave no heavy hearts but those in my own home, and take
   none along but the one which aches in my bosom. Cold, bitter cold as
   December, and bleak as its blasts, seemed the world then to me; there is
   no misanthrope like a boy disappointed; and such was I, with the warmth
   of me flogged out by adversity. But these thoughts are bitter enough
   even now, for they have not yet gone quite away; and they must be
   uncongenial enough to the reader; so no more of that, and let me go on
   with my story.
   "Yes, I will write you, dear mother, as soon as I can," murmured I, as
   she charged me for the hundredth time, not fail to inform her of my safe
   arrival in New York.
   "And now Mary, Martha, and Jane, kiss me all round, dear sisters, and
   then I am off. I'll be back in four months--it will be autumn then, and
   we'll go into the woods after nuts, an I'll tell you all about Europe.
   Good-by! good-by!"
   So I broke loose from their arms, and not daring to look behind, ran
   away as fast as I could, till I got to the corner where my brother was
   waiting. He accompanied me part of the way to the place, where the
   steamboat was to leave for New York; instilling into me much sage advice
   above his age, for he was but eight years my senior, and warning me
   again and again to take care of myself; and I solemnly promised I would;
   for what cast-away will not promise to take of care himself, when he
   sees that unless he himself does, no one else will.
   We walked on in silence till I saw that his strength was giving out,--he
   was in ill health then,--and with a mute grasp of the hand, and a loud
   thump at the heart, we parted.
   It was early on a raw, cold, damp morning toward the end of spring, and
   the world was before me; stretching away a long muddy road, lined with
   comfortable houses, whose inmates were taking their sunrise naps,
   heedless of the wayfarer passing. The cold drops of drizzle trickled
   down my leather cap, and mingled with a few hot tears on my cheeks.
   I had the whole road to myself, for no one was yet stirring, and I
   walked on, with a slouching, dogged gait. The gray shooting-jacket was
   on my back, and from the end of my brother's rifle hung a small bundle
   of my clothes. My fingers worked moodily at the stock and trigger, and I
   thought that this indeed was the way to begin life, with a gun in your
   hand!
   Talk not of the bitterness of middle-age and after life; a boy can feel
   all that, and much more, when upon his young soul the mildew has fallen;
   and the fruit, which with others is only blasted after ripeness, with
   him is nipped in the first blossom and bud. And never again can such
   blights be made good; they strike in too deep, and leave such a scar
   that the air of Paradise might not erase it. And it is a hard and cruel
   thing thus in early youth to taste beforehand the pangs which should be
   reserved for the stout time of manhood, when the gristle has become
   bone, and we stand up and fight out our lives, as a thing tried before
   and foreseen; for then we are veterans used to sieges and battles, and
   not green recruits, recoiling at the first shock of the encounter.
   At last gaining the boat we pushed off, and away we steamed down the
   Hudson. There were few passengers on board, the day was so unpleasant;
   and they were mostly congregated in the after cabin round the stoves.
   After breakfast, some of them went to reading: others took a nap on the
   settees; and others sat in silent circles, speculating, no doubt, as to
   who each other might be.
   They were certainly a cheerless set, and to me they all looked
   stony-eyed and heartless. I could not help it, I almost hated them; and
   to avoid them, went on deck, but a storm of sleet drove me below. At
   last I bethought me, that I had not procured a ticket, and going to the
   captain's office to pay my passage and get one, was horror-struck to
   find, that the price of passage had been suddenly raised that day, owing
   to the other boats not running; so that I had not enough money to pay
   for my fare. I had supposed it would be but a dollar, and only a dollar
   did I have, whereas it was two. What was to be done? The boat was off,
   and there was no backing out; so I determined to say nothing to any
   body, and grimly wait until called upon for my fare.
   The long weary day wore on till afternoon; one incessant storm raged
   on deck; but after dinner the few passengers, waked up with their
   roast-beef and mutton, became a little more sociable. Not with me, for
   the scent and savor of poverty was upon me, and they all cast toward me
   their evil eyes and cold suspicious glances, as I sat apart, though
   among them. I felt that desperation and recklessness of poverty which
   only a pauper knows. There was a mighty patch upon one leg of my
   trowsers, neatly sewed on, for it had been executed by my mother, but
   still very obvious and incontrovertible to the eye. This patch I had
   hitherto studiously endeavored to hide with the ample skirts of my
   shooting-jacket; but now I stretched out my leg boldly, and thrust the
   patch under their noses, and looked at them so, that they soon looked
   away, boy though I was. Perhaps the gun that I clenched frightened them
   into respect; or there might have been something ugly in my eye; or my
   teeth were white, and my jaws were set. For several hours, I sat gazing
   at a jovial party seated round a mahogany table, with some crackers and
   cheese, and wine and cigars. Their faces were flushed with the good
   dinner they had eaten; and mine felt pale and wan with a long fast. If I
   had presumed to offer to make one of their party; if I had told them of
   my circumstances, and solicited something to refresh me, I very well
   knew from the peculiar hollow ring of their laughter, they would have
   had the waiters put me out of the cabin, for a beggar, who had no
   business to be warming himself at their stove. And for that insult,
   though only a conceit, I sat and gazed at them, putting up no petitions
   for their prosperity. My whole soul was soured within me, and when at
   last the captain's clerk, a slender young man, dressed in the height of
   fashion, with a gold watch chain and broach, came round collecting the
   tickets, I buttoned up my coat to the throat, clutched my gun, put on my
   leather cap, and pulling it well down, stood up like a sentry before
   him. He held out his hand, deeming any remark superfluous, as his object
   in pausing before me must be obvious. But I stood motionless and silent,
   and in a moment he saw how it was with me. I ought to have spoken and
   told him the case, in plain, civil terms, and offered my dollar, and
   then waited the event. But I felt too wicked for that. He did not wait a
   great while, but spoke first himself; and in a gruff voice, very unlike
   his urbane accents when accosting the wine and cigar party, demanded my
   ticket. I replied that I had none. He then demanded the money; and upon
   my answering that I had not enough, in a loud angry voice that attracted
   all eyes, he ordered me out of the cabin into the storm. The devil in me
   then mounted up from my soul, and spread over my frame, till it tingled
   at my finger ends; and I muttered out my resolution to stay where I was,
   in such a manner, that the ticket man faltered back. "There's a dollar
   for you," I added, offering it.
