   
   "Didn't I tell you to slush down the main-top mast?" he shouted.
   "You did," said I, "but I don't know what that means."
   "Green as grass! a regular cabbage-head!" he exclaimed to himself. "A
   fine time I'll have with such a greenhorn aboard. Look you, youngster.
   Look up to that long pole there--d'ye see it? that piece of a tree there,
   you timber-head--well--take this bucket here, and go up the rigging--that
   rope-ladder there--do you understand?--and dab this slush all over the
   mast, and look out for your head if one drop falls on deck. Be off now,
   Buttons."
   The eventful hour had arrived; for the first time in my life I was to
   ascend a ship's mast. Had I been well and hearty, perhaps I should have
   felt a little shaky at the thought; but as I was then, weak and faint,
   the bare thought appalled me.
   But there was no hanging back; it would look like cowardice, and I could
   not bring myself to confess that I was suffering for want of food; so
   rallying again, I took up the bucket.
   It was a heavy bucket, with strong iron hoops, and might have held
   perhaps two gallons. But it was only half full now of a sort of thick
   lobbered gravy, which I afterward learned was boiled out of the salt
   beef used by the sailors. Upon getting into the rigging, I found it was
   no easy job to carry this heavy bucket up with me. The rope handle of it
   was so slippery with grease, that although I twisted it several times
   about my wrist, it would be still twirling round and round, and slipping
   off. Spite of this, however, I managed to mount as far as the "top," the
   clumsy bucket half the time straddling and swinging about between my
   legs, and in momentary danger of capsizing. Arrived at the "top," I came
   to a dead halt, and looked up. How to surmount that overhanging
   impediment completely posed me for the time. But at last, with much
   straining, I contrived to place my bucket in the "top;" and then,
   trusting to Providence, swung myself up after it. The rest of the road
   was comparatively easy; though whenever I incautiously looked down
   toward the deck, my head spun round so from weakness, that I was obliged
   to shut my eyes to recover myself. I do not remember much more. I only
   recollect my safe return to the deck.
   In a short time the bustle of the ship increased; the trunks of cabin
   passengers arrived, and the chests and boxes of the steerage passengers,
   besides baskets of wine and fruit for the captain.
   At last we cast loose, and swinging out into the stream, came to anchor,
   and hoisted the signal for sailing. Every thing, it seemed, was on board
   but the crew; who in a few hours after, came off, one by one, in
   Whitehall boats, their chests in the bow, and themselves lying back in
   the stem like lords; and showing very plainly the complacency they felt
   in keeping the whole ship waiting for their lordships.
   "Ay, ay," muttered the chief mate, as they rolled out of then-boats and
   swaggered on deck, "it's your turn now, but it will be mine before long.
   Yaw about while you may, my hearties, I'll do the yawing after the
   anchor's up."
   Several of the sailors were very drunk, and one of them was lifted on
   board insensible by his landlord, who carried him down below and dumped
   him into a bunk. And two other sailors, as soon as they made their
   appearance, immediately went below to sleep off the fumes of their
   drink.
   At last, all the crew being on board, word was passed to go to dinner
   fore and aft, an order that made my heart jump with delight, for now my
   long fast would be broken. But though the sailors, surfeited with eating
   and drinking ashore, did not then touch the salt beef and potatoes which
   the black cook handed down into the forecastle; and though this left the
   whole allowance to me; to my surprise, I found that I could eat little
   or nothing; for now I only felt deadly faint, but not hungry.
   VII. HE GETS TO SEA AND FEELS VERY BAD
   Every thing at last being in readiness, the pilot came on board, and all
   hands were called to up anchor. While I worked at my bar, I could not
   help observing how haggard the men looked, and how much they suffered
   from this violent exercise, after the terrific dissipation in which they
   had been indulging ashore. But I soon learnt that sailors breathe
   nothing about such things, but strive their best to appear all alive and
   hearty, though it comes very hard for many of them.
   The anchor being secured, a steam tug-boat with a strong name, the
   Hercules, took hold of us; and away we went past the long line of
   shipping, and wharves, and warehouses; and rounded the green south point
   of the island where the Battery is, and passed Governor's Island, and
   pointed right out for the Narrows.
   My heart was like lead, and I felt bad enough, Heaven knows; but then,
   there was plenty of work to be done, which kept my thoughts from
   becoming too much for me.
   And I tried to think all the time, that I was going to England, and
   that, before many months, I should have actually been there and home
   again, telling my adventures to my brothers and sisters; and with what
   delight they would listen, and how they would look up to me then, and
   reverence my sayings; and how that even my elder brother would be forced
   to treat me with great consideration, as having crossed the Atlantic
   Ocean, which he had never done, and there was no probability he ever
   would.
