   
   To relieve my anxiety, Goodwell endeavored to assure me, that Harry must
   indeed have departed on a whaling voyage. But remembering his bitter
   experience on board of the Highlander, and more than all, his
   nervousness about going aloft, it seemed next to impossible.
   At last I was forced to give him up.
                    *     *     *     *     *
   Years after this, I found myself a sailor in the Pacific, on board of a
   whaler. One day at sea, we spoke another whaler, and the boat's crew
   that boarded our vessel, came forward among us to have a little
   sea-chat, as is always customary upon such occasions.
   Among the strangers was an Englishman, who had shipped in his vessel at
   Callao, for the cruise. In the course of conversation, he made allusion
   to the fact, that he had now been in the Pacific several years, and that
   the good craft Huntress of Nantucket had had the honor of originally
   bringing him round upon that side of the globe. I asked him why he had
   abandoned her; he answered that she was the most unlucky of ships.
   "We had hardly been out three months," said he, "when on the Brazil
   banks we lost a boat's crew, chasing a whale after sundown; and next day
   lost a poor little fellow, a countryman of mine, who had never entered
   the boats; he fell over the side, and was jammed between the ship, and a
   whale, while we were cutting the fish in. Poor fellow, he had a hard
   time of it, from the beginning; he was a gentleman's son, and when you
   could coax him to it, he sang like a bird."
   "What was his name?" said I, trembling with expectation; "what kind of
   eyes did he have? what was the color of his hair?"
   "Harry Bolton was not your brother?" cried the stranger, starting.
   Harry Bolton!
   It was even he!
   But yet, I, Wellingborough Redburn, chance to survive, after having
   passed through far more perilous scenes than any narrated in this, My
   First Voyage--which here I end.
