   
   With such thoughts as these I endeavored to shake off my heavy-
   heartedness; but it would not do at all; for this was only the first day
   of the voyage, and many weeks, nay, several whole months must elapse
   before the voyage was ended; and who could tell what might happen to
   me; for when I looked up at the high, giddy masts, and thought how
   often I must be going up and down them, I thought sure enough that some
   luckless day or other, I would certainly fall overboard and be drowned.
   And then, I thought of lying down at the bottom of the sea, stark alone,
   with the great waves rolling over me, and no one in the wide world
   knowing that I was there. And I thought how much better and sweeter it
   must be, to be buried under the pleasant hedge that bounded the sunny
   south side of our village grave-yard, where every Sunday I had used to
   walk after church in the afternoon; and I almost wished I was there now;
   yes, dead and buried in that churchyard. All the time my eyes were
   filled with tears, and I kept holding my breath, to choke down the sobs,
   for indeed I could not help feeling as I did, and no doubt any boy in
   the world would have felt just as I did then.
   As the steamer carried us further and further down the bay, and we
   passed ships lying at anchor, with men gazing at us and waving their
   hats; and small boats with ladies in them waving their handkerchiefs;
   and passed the green shore of Staten Island, and caught sight of so many
   beautiful cottages all overrun with vines, and planted on the beautiful
   fresh mossy hill-sides; oh! then I would have given any thing if instead
   of sailing out of the bay, we were only coming into it; if we had
   crossed the ocean and returned, gone over and come back; and my heart
   leaped up in me like something alive when I thought of really entering
   that bay at the end of the voyage. But that was so far distant, that it
   seemed it could never be. No, never, never more would I see New York
   again.
   And what shocked me more than any thing else, was to hear some of the
   sailors, while they were at work coiling away the hawsers, talking about
   the boarding-houses they were going to, when they came back; and how
   that some friends of theirs had promised to be on the wharf when the
   ship returned, to take them and their chests right up to Franklin-square
   where they lived; and how that they would have a good dinner ready, and
   plenty of cigars and spirits out on the balcony. I say this land of
   talking shocked me, for they did not seem to consider, as I did, that
   before any thing like that could happen, we must cross the great
   Atlantic Ocean, cross over from America to Europe and back again, many
   thousand miles of foaming ocean.
   At that time I did not know what to make of these sailors; but this much
   I thought, that when they were boys, they could never have gone to the
   Sunday School; for they swore so, it made my ears tingle, and used words
   that I never could hear without a dreadful loathing.
   And are these the men, I thought to myself, that I must live with so
   long? these the men I am to eat with, and sleep with all the time? And
   besides, I now began to see, that they were not going to be very kind to
   me; but I will tell all about that when the proper time comes.
   Now you must not think, that because all these things were passing
   through my mind, that I had nothing to do but sit still and think; no,
   no, I was hard at work: for as long as the steamer had hold of us, we
   were very busy coiling away ropes and cables, and putting the decks in
   order; which were littered all over with odds and ends of things that
   had to be put away.
   At last we got as far as the Narrows, which every body knows is the
   entrance to New York Harbor from sea; and it may well be called the
   Narrows, for when you go in or out, it seems like going in or out of a
   doorway; and when you go out of these Narrows on a long voyage like this
   of mine, it seems like going out into the broad highway, where not a
   soul is to be seen. For far away and away, stretches the great Atlantic
   Ocean; and all you can see beyond it where the sky comes down to the
   water. It looks lonely and desolate enough, and I could hardly believe,
   as I gazed around me, that there could be any land beyond, or any place
   like Europe or England or Liverpool in the great wide world. It seemed
   too strange, and wonderful, and altogether incredible, that there could
   really be cities and towns and villages and green fields and hedges and
   farm-yards and orchards, away over that wide blank of sea, and away
   beyond the place where the sky came down to the water. And to think of
   steering right out among those waves, and leaving the bright land
   behind, and the dark night coming on, too, seemed wild and foolhardy;
   and I looked with a sort of fear at the sailors standing by me, who
   could be so thoughtless at such a time. But then I remembered, how many
   times my own father had said he had crossed the ocean; and I had never
   dreamed of such a thing as doubting him; for I always thought him a
   marvelous being, infinitely purer and greater than I was, who could not
   by any possibility do wrong, or say an untruth. Yet now, how could I
   credit it, that he, my own father, whom I so well remembered; had ever
   sailed out of these Narrows, and sailed right through the sky and water
   line, and gone to England, and France, Liverpool, and Marseilles. It was
   too wonderful to believe.
   Now, on the right hand side of the Narrows as you go out, the land is
   quite high; and on the top of a fine cliff is a great castle or fort,
   all in ruins, and with the trees growing round it. It was built by
   Governor Tompkins in the time of the last war with England, but was
   never used, I believe, and so they left it to decay. I had visited the
   place once when we lived in New York, as long ago almost as I could
   remember, with my father, and an uncle of mine, an old sea-captain, with
   white hair, who used to sail to a place called Archangel in Russia, and
   who used to tell me that he was with Captain Langsdorff, when Captain
   Langsdorff crossed over by land from the sea of Okotsk in Asia to St.
   Petersburgh, drawn by large dogs in a sled. I mention this of my uncle,
   because he was the very first sea-captain I had ever seen, and his white
   hair and fine handsome florid face made so strong an impression upon me,
   that I have never forgotten him, though I only saw him during this one
   visit of his to New York, for he was lost in the White Sea some years
   after.
   But I meant to speak about the fort. It was a beautiful place, as I
   remembered it, and very wonderful and romantic, too, as it appeared to
   me, when I went there with my uncle. On the side away from the water was
   a green grove of trees, very thick and shady; and through this grove, in
   a sort of twilight you came to an arch in the wall of the fort, dark as
   night; and going in, you groped about in long vaults, twisting and
   turning on every side, till at last you caught a peep of green grass and
   sunlight, and all at once came out in an open space in the middle of the
   castle. And there you would see cows quietly grazing, or ruminating
   under the shade of young trees, and perhaps a calf frisking about, and
   trying to catch its own tail; and sheep clambering among the mossy
   ruins, and cropping the little tufts of grass sprouting out of the sides
   of the embrasures for cannon. And once I saw a black goat with a long
   beard, and crumpled horns, standing with his forefeet lifted high up on
   the topmost parapet, and looking to sea, as if he were watching for a
   ship that was bringing over his cousin. I can see him even now, and
   though I have changed since then, the black goat looks just the same as
   ever; and so I suppose he would, if I live to be as old as Methusaleh,
   and have as great a memory as he must have had. Yes, the fort was a
   beautiful, quiet, charming spot. I should like to build a little cottage
   in the middle of it, and live there all my life. It was noon-day when I
   was there, in the month of June, and there was little wind to stir the
   trees, and every thing looked as if it was waiting for something, and
   the sky overhead was blue as my mother's eye, and I was so glad and
   happy then. But I must not think of those delightful days, before my
   father became a bankrupt, and died, and we removed from the city; for
   when I think of those days, something rises up in my throat and almost
   strangles me.
   Now, as we sailed through the Narrows, I caught sight of that beautiful
   fort on the cliff, and could not help contrasting my situation now, with
   what it was when with my father and uncle I went there so long ago. Then
   I never thought of working for my living, and never knew that there were
   hard hearts in the world; and knew so little of money, that when I
   bought a stick of candy, and laid down a sixpence, I thought the
   confectioner returned five cents, only that I might have money to buy
   something else, and not because the pennies were my change, and
   therefore mine by good rights. How different my idea of money now!
   Then I was a schoolboy, and thought of going to college in time; and had
   vague thoughts of becoming a great orator like Patrick Henry, whose
   speeches I used to speak on the stage; but now, I was a poor friendless
   boy, far away from my home, and voluntarily in the way of becoming a
   miserable sailor for life. And what made it more bitter to me, was to
   think of how well off were my cousins, who were happy and rich, and
   lived at home with my uncles and aunts, with no thought of going to sea
   for a living. I tried to think that it was all a dream, that I was not
   where I was, not on board of a ship, but that I was at home again in the
   city, with my father alive, and my mother bright and happy as she used
   to be. But it would not do. I was indeed where I was, and here was the
   ship, and there was the fort. So, after casting a last look at some boys
   who were standing on the parapet, gazing off to sea, I turned away
   heavily, and resolved not to look at the land any more.
   About sunset we got fairly "outside," and well may it so be called; for
   I felt thrust out of the world. Then the breeze began to blow, and the
   sails were loosed, and hoisted; and after a while, the steamboat left
   us, and for the first time I felt the ship roll, a strange feeling
   enough, as if it were a great barrel in the water. Shortly after, I
   observed a swift little schooner running across our bows, and
   re-crossing again and again; and while I was wondering what she could
   be, she suddenly lowered her sails, and two men took hold of a little
   boat on her deck, and launched it overboard as if it had been a chip.
   Then I noticed that our pilot, a red-faced man in a rough blue coat, who
   to my astonishment had all this time been giving orders instead of the
   captain, began to button up his coat to the throat, like a prudent
   person about leaving a house at night in a lonely square, to go home;
   and he left the giving orders to the chief mate, and stood apart talking
   with the captain, and put his hand into his pocket, and gave him some
   newspapers.
   And in a few minutes, when we had stopped our headway, and allowed the
   little boat to come alongside, he shook hands with the captain and
   officers and bade them good-by, without saying a syllable of farewell to
   me and the sailors; and so he went laughing over the side, and got into
   the boat, and they pulled him off to the schooner, and then the schooner
   made sail and glided under our stern, her men standing up and waving
   their hats, and cheering; and that was the last we saw of America.
   VIII. HE IS PUT INTO THE LARBOARD WATCH; GETS SEA-SICK; AND RELATES SOME
   OTHER OF HIS EXPERIENCES
   It was now getting dark, when all at once the sailors were ordered on
   the quarter-deck, and of course I went along with them.
   What is to come now, thought I; but I soon found out. It seemed we were
   going to be divided into watches. The chief mate began by selecting a
   stout good-looking sailor for his watch; and then the second mate's turn
   came to choose, and he also chose a stout good-looking sailor. But it
   was not me;--no; and I noticed, as they went on choosing, one after the
   other in regular rotation, that both of the mates never so much as
   looked at me, but kept going round among the rest, peering into their
   faces, for it was dusk, and telling them not to hide themselves away so
   in their jackets. But the sailors, especially the stout good-looking
   ones, seemed to make a point of lounging as much out of the way as
   possible, and slouching their hats over their eyes; and although it may
   only be a fancy of mine, I certainly thought that they affected a sort
   of lordly indifference as to whose watch they were going to be in; and
   did not think it worth while to look any way anxious about the matter.
   And the very men who, a few minutes before, had showed the most alacrity
   and promptitude in jumping into the rigging and running aloft at the
   word of command, now lounged against the bulwarks and most lazily; as if
   they were quite sure, that by this time the officers must know who the
   best men were, and they valued themselves well enough to be willing to
   put the officers to the trouble of searching them out; for if they were
   worth having, they were worth seeking.
