   
   At last they were all chosen but me; and it was the chief mate's next
   turn to choose; though there could be little choosing in my case, since
   I was a thirteener, and must, whether or no, go over to the next column,
   like the odd figure you carry along when you do a sum in addition.
   "Well, Buttons," said the chief mate, "I thought I'd got rid of you. And
   as it is, Mr. Rigs," he added, speaking to the second mate, "I guess you
   had better take him into your watch;--there, I'll let you have him, and
   then you'll be one stronger than me."
   "No, I thank you," said Mr. Rigs.
   "You had better," said the chief mate--"see, he's not a bad looking
   chap--he's a little green, to be sure, but you were so once yourself, you
   know, Rigs."
   "No, I thank you," said the second mate again. "Take him yourself--he's
   yours by good rights--I don't want him." And so they put me in the chief
   mate's division, that is the larboard watch.
   While this scene was going on, I felt shabby enough; there I stood, just
   like a silly sheep, over whom two butchers are bargaining. Nothing that
   had yet happened so forcibly reminded me of where I was, and what I had
   come to. I was very glad when they sent us forward again.
   As we were going forward, the second mate called one of the sailors by
   name:-"You, Bill?" and Bill answered, "Sir?" just as if the second mate
   was a born gentleman. It surprised me not a little, to see a man in such
   a shabby, shaggy old jacket addressed so respectfully; but I had been
   quite as much surprised when I heard the chief mate call him Mr. Rigs
   during the scene on the quarter-deck; as if this Mr. Rigs was a great
   merchant living in a marble house in Lafayette Place. But I was not very
   long in finding out, that at sea all officers are Misters, and would
   take it for an insult if any seaman presumed to omit calling them so.
   And it is also one of their rights and privileges to be called sir when
   addressed--Yes, sir; No, sir; Ay, ay, sir; and they are as particular
   about being sirred as so many knights and baronets; though their titles
   are not hereditary, as is the case with the Sir Johns and Sir Joshuas in
   England. But so far as the second mate is concerned, his tides are the
   only dignities he enjoys; for, upon the whole, he leads a puppyish We
   indeed. He is not deemed company at any time for the captain, though the
   chief mate occasionally is, at least deck-company, though not in the
   cabin; and besides this, the second mate has to breakfast, lunch, dine,
   and sup off the leavings of the cabin table, and even the steward, who
   is accountable to nobody but the captain, sometimes treats him
   cavalierly; and he has to run aloft when topsails are reefed; and put
   his hand a good way down into the tar-bucket; and keep the key of the
   boatswain's locker, and fetch and carry balls of marline and
   seizing-stuff for the sailors when at work in the rigging; besides doing
   many other things, which a true-born baronet of any spirit would rather
   die and give up his title than stand.
   Having been divided into watches we were sent to supper; but I could not
   eat any thing except a little biscuit, though I should have liked to
   have some good tea; but as I had no pot to get it in, and was rather
   nervous about asking the rough sailors to let me drink out of theirs; I
   was obliged to go without a sip. I thought of going to the black cook
   and begging a tin cup; but he looked so cross and ugly then, that the
   sight of him almost frightened the idea out of me.
   When supper was over, for they never talk about going to tea aboard of a
   ship, the watch to which I belonged was called on deck; and we were told
   it was for us to stand the first night watch, that is, from eight
   o'clock till midnight.
   I now began to feel unsettled and ill at ease about the stomach, as if
   matters were all topsy-turvy there; and felt strange and giddy about the
   head; and so I made no doubt that this was the beginning of that
   dreadful thing, the sea-sickness. Feeling worse and worse, I told one of
   the sailors how it was with me, and begged him to make my excuses very
   civilly to the chief mate, for I thought I would go below and spend the
   night in my bunk. But he only laughed at me, and said something about my
   mother not being aware of my being out; which enraged me not a little,
   that a man whom I had heard swear so terribly, should dare to take such
   a holy name into his mouth. It seemed a sort of blasphemy, and it seemed
   like dragging out the best and most cherished secrets of my soul, for at
   that time the name of mother was the center of all my heart's finest
   feelings, which ere that, I had learned to keep secret, deep down in my
   being.
   But I did not outwardly resent the sailor's words, for that would have
   only made the matter worse.
   Now this man was a Greenlander by birth, with a very white skin where
   the sun had not burnt it, and handsome blue eyes placed wide apart in
   his head, and a broad good-humored face, and plenty of curly flaxen
   hair. He was not very tall, but exceedingly stout-built, though active;
   and his back was as broad as a shield, and it was a great way between
   his shoulders. He seemed to be a sort of lady's sailor, for in his
   broken English he was always talking about the nice ladies of his
   acquaintance in Stockholm and Copenhagen and a place he called the Hook,
   which at first I fancied must be the place where lived the hook-nosed
   men that caught fowling-pieces and every other article that came along.
   He was dressed very tastefully, too, as if he knew he was a good-looking
   fellow. He had on a new blue woolen Havre frock, with a new silk
   handkerchief round his neck, passed through one of the vertebral bones
   of a shark, highly polished and carved. His trowsers were of clear white
   duck, and he sported a handsome pair of pumps, and a tarpaulin hat
   bright as a looking-glass, with a long black ribbon streaming behind,
   and getting entangled every now and then in the rigging; and he had gold
   anchors in his ears, and a silver ring on one of his fingers, which was
   very much worn and bent from pulling ropes and other work on board ship.
   I thought he might better have left his jewelry at home.
   It was a long time before I could believe that this man was really from
   Greenland, though he looked strange enough to me, then, to have come
   from the moon; and he was full of stories about that distant country;
   how they passed the winters there; and how bitter cold it was; and how
   he used to go to bed and sleep twelve hours, and get up again and run
   about, and go to bed again, and get up again--there was no telling how
   many times, and all in one night; for in the winter time in his country,
   he said, the nights were so many weeks long, that a Greenland baby was
   sometimes three months old, before it could properly be said to be a day
   old.
   I had seen mention made of such things before, in books of voyages; but
   that was only reading about them, just as you read the Arabian Nights,
   which no one ever believes; for somehow, when I read about these
   wonderful countries, I never used really to believe what I read, but
   only thought it very strange, and a good deal too strange to be
   altogether true; though I never thought the men who wrote the book meant
   to tell lies. But I don't know exactly how to explain what I mean; but
   this much I will say, that I never believed in Greenland till I saw this
   Greenlander. And at first, hearing him talk about Greenland, only made
   me still more incredulous. For what business had a man from Greenland to
   be in my company? Why was he not at home among the icebergs, and how
   could he stand a warm summer's sun, and not be melted away? Besides,
   instead of icicles, there were ear-rings hanging from his ears; and he
   did not wear bear-skins, and keep his hands in a huge muff; things,
   which I could not help connecting with Greenland and all Greenlanders.
   But I was telling about my being sea-sick and wanting to retire for the
   night. This Greenlander seeing I was ill, volunteered to turn doctor and
   cure me; so going down into the forecastle, he came back with a brown
   jug, like a molasses jug, and a little tin cannikin, and as soon as the
   brown jug got near my nose, I needed no telling what was in it, for it
   smelt like a still-house, and sure enough proved to be full of Jamaica
   spirits.
   "Now, Buttons," said he, "one little dose of this will be better for you
   than a whole night's sleep; there, take that now, and then eat seven or
   eight biscuits, and you'll feel as strong as the mainmast."
   But I felt very little like doing as I was bid, for I had some scruples
   about drinking spirits; and to tell the plain truth, for I am not
   ashamed of it, I was a member of a society in the village where my
   mother lived, called the Juvenile Total Abstinence Association, of which
   my friend, Tom Legare, was president, secretary, and treasurer, and kept
   the funds in a little purse that his cousin knit for him. There was
   three and sixpence on hand, I believe, the last time he brought in his
   accounts, on a May day, when we had a meeting in a grove on the
   river-bank. Tom was a very honest treasurer, and never spent the
   Society's money for peanuts; and besides all, was a fine, generous boy,
   whom I much loved. But I must not talk about Tom now.
   When the Greenlander came to me with his jug of medicine, I thanked him
   as well as I could; for just then I was leaning with my mouth over the
   side, feeling ready to die; but I managed to tell him I was under a
   solemn obligation never to drink spirits upon any consideration
   whatever; though, as I had a sort of presentiment that the spirits would
   now, for once in my life, do me good, I began to feel sorry, that when I
   signed the pledge of abstinence, I had not taken care to insert a little
   clause, allowing me to drink spirits in case of sea-sickness. And I
   would advise temperance people to attend to this matter in future; and
   then if they come to go to sea, there will be no need of breaking their
   pledges, which I am truly sorry to say was the case with me. And a hard
   thing it was, too, thus to break a vow before unbroken; especially as
   the Jamaica tasted any thing but agreeable, and indeed burnt my mouth
   so, that I did not relish my meals for some time after. Even when I had
   become quite well and strong again, I wondered how the sailors could
   really like such stuff; but many of them had a jug of it, besides the
   Greenlander, which they brought along to sea with them, to taper off
   with, as they called it. But this tapering off did not last very long,
   for the Jamaica was all gone on the second day, and the jugs were tossed
   overboard. I wonder where they are now?
   But to tell the truth, I found, in spite of its sharp taste, the spirits
   I drank was just the thing I needed; but I suppose, if I could have had
   a cup of nice hot coffee, it would have done quite as well, and perhaps
   much better. But that was not to be had at that time of night, or,
   indeed, at any other time; for the thing they called coffee, which was
   given to us every morning at breakfast, was the most curious tasting
   drink I ever drank, and tasted as little like coffee, as it did like
   lemonade; though, to be sure, it was generally as cold as lemonade, and
   I used to think the cook had an icehouse, and dropt ice into his coffee.
   But what was more curious still, was the different quality and taste of
   it on different mornings. Sometimes it tasted fishy, as if it was a
   decoction of Dutch herrings; and then it would taste very salty, as if
   some old horse, or sea-beef, had been boiled in it; and then again it
   would taste a sort of cheesy, as if the captain had sent his
   cheese-parings forward to make our coffee of; and yet another time it
   would have such a very bad flavor, that I was almost ready to think some
   old stocking-heels had been boiled in it. What under heaven it was made
   of, that it had so many different bad flavors, always remained a
   mystery; for when at work at his vocation, our old cook used to keep
   himself close shut-up in his caboose, a little cook-house, and never
   told any of his secrets.
   Though a very serious character, as I shall hereafter show, he was for
   all that, and perhaps for that identical reason, a very suspicious
   looking sort of a cook, that I don't believe would ever succeed in
   getting the cooking at Delmonico's in New York. It was well for him that
   he was a black cook, for I have no doubt his color kept us from seeing
   his dirty face! I never saw him wash but once, and that was at one of
   his own soup pots one dark night when he thought no one saw him. What
   induced him to be washing his face then, I never could find out; but I
   suppose he must have suddenly waked up, after dreaming about some real
   estate on his cheeks. As for his coffee, notwithstanding the
   disagreeableness of its flavor, I always used to have a strange
   curiosity every morning, to see what new taste it was going to have; and
   though, sure enough, I never missed making a new discovery, and adding
   another taste to my palate, I never found that there was any change in
   the badness of the beverage, which always seemed the same in that
   respect as before.
