   
   It may well be believed, then, that now when I was seasick, a cup of
   such coffee as our old cook made would have done me no good, if indeed
   it would not have come near making an end of me. And bad as it was, and
   since it was not to be had at that time of night, as I said before, I
   think I was excusable in taking something else in place of it, as I did;
   and under the circumstances, it would be unhandsome of them, if my
   fellow-members of the Temperance Society should reproach me for breaking
   my bond, which I would not have done except in case of necessity. But
   the evil effect of breaking one's bond upon any occasion whatever, was
   witnessed in the present case; for it insidiously opened the way to
   subsequent breaches of it, which though very slight, yet carried no
   apology with them.
   IX. THE SAILORS BECOMING A LITTLE SOCIAL, REDBURN CONVERSES WITH THEM
   The latter part of this first long watch that we stood was very
   pleasant, so far as the weather was concerned. From being rather cloudy,
   it became a soft moonlight; and the stars peeped out, plain enough to
   count one by one; and there was a fine steady breeze; and it was not
   very cold; and we were going through the water almost as smooth as a
   sled sliding down hill. And what was still better, the wind held so
   steady, that there was little running aloft, little pulling ropes, and
   scarcely any thing disagreeable of that kind.
   The chief mate kept walking up and down the quarter-deck, with a lighted
   long-nine cigar in his mouth by way of a torch; and spoke but few words
   to us the whole watch. He must have had a good deal of thinking to
   attend to, which hi truth is the case with most seamen the first night
   out of port, especially when they have thrown away their money in
   foolish dissipation, and got very sick into the bargain. For when
   ashore, many of these sea-officers are as wild and reckless in their
   way, as the sailors they command.
   While I stood watching the red cigar-end promenading up and down, the
   mate suddenly stopped and gave an order, and the men sprang to obey it.
   It was not much, only something about hoisting one of the sails a little
   higher up on the mast. The men took hold of the rope, and began pulling
   upon it; the foremost man of all setting up a song with no words to it,
   only a strange musical rise and fall of notes. In the dark night, and
   far out upon the lonely sea, it sounded wild enough, and made me feel as
   I had sometimes felt, when in a twilight room a cousin of mine, with
   black eyes, used to play some old German airs on the piano. I almost
   looked round for goblins, and felt just a little bit afraid. But I soon
   got used to this singing; for the sailors never touched a rope without
   it. Sometimes, when no one happened to strike up, and the pulling,
   whatever it might be, did not seem to be getting forward very well, the
   mate would always say, "Come, men, can't any of you sing? Sing now, and
   raise the dead." And then some one of them would begin, and if every
   man's arms were as much relieved as mine by the song, and he could pull
   as much better as I did, with such a cheering accompaniment, I am sure
   the song was well worth the breath expended on it. It is a great thing
   in a sailor to know how to sing well, for he gets a great name by it
   from the officers, and a good deal of popularity among his shipmates.
   Some sea-captains, before shipping a man, always ask him whether he can
   sing out at a rope.
   During the greater part of the watch, the sailors sat on the windlass
   and told long stories of their adventures by sea and land, and talked
   about Gibraltar, and Canton, and Valparaiso, and Bombay, just as you and
   I would about Peck Slip and the Bowery. Every man of them almost was a
   volume of Voyages and Travels round the World. And what most struck me
   was that like books of voyages they often contradicted each other, and
   would fall into long and violent disputes about who was keeping the Foul
   Anchor tavern in Portsmouth at such a time; or whether the King of
   Canton lived or did not live in Persia; or whether the bar-maid of a
   particular house in Hamburg had black eyes or blue eyes; with many other
   mooted points of that sort.
   At last one of them went below and brought up a box of cigars from his
   chest, for some sailors always provide little delicacies of that kind,
   to break off the first shock of the salt water after laying idle ashore;
   and also by way of tapering off, as I mentioned a little while ago. But
   I wondered that they never carried any pies and tarts to sea with them,
   instead of spirits and cigars.
   Ned, for that was the man's name, split open the box with a blow of his
   fist, and then handed it round along the windlass, just like a waiter at
   a party, every one helping himself. But I was a member of an
   Anti-Smoking Society that had been organized in our village by the
   Principal of the Sunday School there, in conjunction with the Temperance
   Association. So I did not smoke any then, though I did afterward upon
   the voyage, I am sorry to say. Notwithstanding I declined; with a good
   deal of unnecessary swearing, Ned assured me that the cigars were real
   genuine Havannas; for he had been in Havanna, he said, and had them made
   there under his own eye. According to his account, he was very
   particular about his cigars and other things, and never made any
   importations, for they were unsafe; but always made a voyage himself
   direct to the place where any foreign thing was to be had that he
   wanted. He went to Havre for his woolen shirts, to Panama for his hats,
   to China for his silk handkerchiefs, and direct to Calcutta for his
   cheroots; and as a great joker in the watch used to say, no doubt he
   would at last have occasion to go to Russia for his halter; the wit of
   which saying was presumed to be in the fact, that the Russian hemp is
   the best; though that is not wit which needs explaining.
   By dint of the spirits which, besides stimulating my fainting strength,
   united with the cool air of the sea to give me an appetite for our hard
   biscuit; and also by dint of walking briskly up and down the deck before
   the windlass, I had now recovered in good part from my sickness, and
   finding the sailors all very pleasant and sociable, at least among
   themselves, and seated smoking together like old cronies, and nothing on
   earth to do but sit the watch out, I began to think that they were a
   pretty good set of fellows after all, barring their swearing and another
   ugly way of talking they had; and I thought I had misconceived their
   true characters; for at the outset I had deemed them such a parcel of
   wicked hard-hearted rascals that it would be a severe affliction to
   associate with them.
   Yes, I now began to look on them with a sort of incipient love; but more
   with an eye of pity and compassion, as men of naturally gentle and kind
   dispositions, whom only hardships, and neglect, and ill-usage had made
   outcasts from good society; and not as villains who loved wickedness for
   the sake of it, and would persist in wickedness, even in Paradise, if
   they ever got there. And I called to mind a sermon I had once heard in a
   church in behalf of sailors, when the preacher called them strayed lambs
   from the fold, and compared them to poor lost children, babes in the
   wood, orphans without fathers or mothers.
   And I remembered reading in a magazine, called the Sailors' Magazine,
   with a sea-blue cover, and a ship painted on the back, about pious
   seamen who never swore, and paid over all their wages to the poor
   heathen in India; and how that when they were too old to go to sea,
   these pious old sailors found a delightful home for life in the
   Hospital, where they had nothing to do, but prepare themselves for their
   latter end. And I wondered whether there were any such good sailors
   among my ship-mates; and observing that one of them laid on deck apart
   from the rest, I thought to be sure he must be one of them: so I did not
   disturb his devotions: but I was afterward shocked at discovering that
   he was only fast asleep, with one of the brown jugs by his side.
   I forgot to mention by the way, that every once in a while, the men went
   into one corner, where the chief mate could not see them, to take a
   "swig at the halyards," as they called it; and this swigging at the
   halyards it was, that enabled them "to taper off" handsomely, and no
   doubt it was this, too, that had something to do with making them so
   pleasant and sociable that night, for they were seldom so pleasant and
   sociable afterward, and never treated me so kindly as they did then. Yet
   this might have been owing to my being something of a stranger to them,
   then; and our being just out of port. But that very night they turned
   about, and taught me a bitter lesson; but all in good time.
   I have said, that seeing how agreeable they were getting, and how
   friendly their manner was, I began to feel a sort of compassion for
   them, grounded on their sad conditions as amiable outcasts; and feeling
   so warm an interest in them, and being full of pity, and being truly
   desirous of benefiting them to the best of my poor powers, for I knew
   they were but poor indeed, I made bold to ask one of them, whether he
   was ever in the habit of going to church, when he was ashore, or
   dropping in at the Floating Chapel I had seen lying off the dock in the
   East River at New York; and whether he would think it too much of a
   liberty, if I asked him, if he had any good books in his chest. He
   stared a little at first, but marking what good language I used, seeing
   my civil bearing toward him, he seemed for a moment to be filled with a
   certain involuntary respect for me, and answered, that he had been to
   church once, some ten or twelve years before, in London, and on a
   week-day had helped to move the Floating Chapel round the Battery, from
   the North River; and that was the only time he had seen it. For his
   books, he said he did not know what I meant by good books; but if I
   wanted the Newgate Calendar, and Pirate's Own, he could lend them to me.
   When I heard this poor sailor talk in this manner, showing so plainly
   his ignorance and absence of proper views of religion, I pitied him more
   and more, and contrasting my own situation with his, I was grateful that
   I was different from him; and I thought how pleasant it was, to feel
   wiser and better than he could feel; though I was willing to confess to
   myself, that it was not altogether my own good endeavors, so much as my
   education, which I had received from others, that had made me the
   upright and sensible boy I at that time thought myself to be. And it was
   now, that I began to feel a good degree of complacency and satisfaction
   in surveying my own character; for, before this, I had previously
   associated with persons of a very discreet life, so that there was
   little opportunity to magnify myself, by comparing myself with my
   neighbors.
   Thinking that my superiority to him in a moral way might sit uneasily
   upon this sailor, I thought it would soften the matter down by giving
   him a chance to show his own superiority to me, in a minor thing; for I
   was far from being vain and conceited.
   Having observed that at certain intervals a little bell was rung on the
   quarter-deck by the man at the wheel; and that as soon as it was heard,
   some one of the sailors forward struck a large bell which hung on the
   forecastle; and having observed that how many times soever the man
   astern rang his bell, the man forward struck his--tit for tat,--I inquired
   of this Floating Chapel sailor, what all this ringing meant; and
   whether, as the big bell hung right over the scuttle that went down to
   the place where the watch below were sleeping, such a ringing every
   little while would not tend to disturb them and beget unpleasant dreams;
   and in asking these questions I was particular to address him in a civil
   and condescending way, so as to show him very plainly that I did not
   deem myself one whit better than he was, that is, taking all things
   together, and not going into particulars. But to my great surprise and
   mortification, he in the rudest land of manner laughed aloud in my face,
   and called me a "Jimmy Dux," though that was not my real name, and he
   must have known it; and also the "son of a farmer," though as I have
   previously related, my father was a great merchant and French importer
   in Broad-street in New York. And then he began to laugh and joke about
   me, with the other sailors, till they all got round me, and if I had not
   felt so terribly angry, I should certainly have felt very much Eke a
   fool. But my being so angry prevented me from feeling foolish, which is
   very lucky for people in a passion.
