   
   X. HE IS VERY MUCH FRIGHTENED; THE SAILORS ABUSE HIM; AND HE BECOMES
   MISERABLE AND FORLORN
   While the scene last described was going on, we were all startled by a
   horrid groaning noise down in the forecastle; and all at once some one
   came rushing up the scuttle in his shirt, clutching something in his
   hand, and trembling and shrieking in the most frightful manner, so that
   I thought one of the sailors must be murdered below.
   But it all passed in a moment; and while we stood aghast at the sight,
   and almost before we knew what it was, the shrieking man jumped over
   the bows into the sea, and we saw him no more. Then there was a great
   uproar; the sailors came running up on deck; and the chief mate ran
   forward, and learning what had happened, began to yell out his orders
   about the sails and yards; and we all went to pulling and hauling the
   ropes, till at last the ship lay almost still on the water. Then they
   loosed a boat, which kept pulling round the ship for more than an hour,
   but they never caught sight of the man. It seemed that he was one of the
   sailors who had been brought aboard dead drunk, and tumbled into his
   bunk by his landlord; and there he had lain till now. He must have
   suddenly waked up, I suppose, raging mad with the delirium tremens, as
   the chief mate called it, and finding himself in a strange silent place,
   and knowing not how he had got there, he rushed on deck, and so, in a
   fit of frenzy, put an end to himself.
   This event, happening at the dead of night, had a wonderfully solemn and
   almost awful effect upon me. I would have given the whole world, and the
   sun and moon, and all the stars in heaven, if they had been mine, had I
   been safe back at Mr. Jones', or still better, in my home on the Hudson
   River. I thought it an ill-omened voyage, and railed at the folly which
   had sent me to sea, sore against the advice of my best friends, that is
   to say, my mother and sisters.
   Alas! poor Wellingborough, thought I, you will never see your home any
   more. And in this melancholy mood I went below, when the watch had
   expired, which happened soon after. But to my terror, I found that the
   suicide had been occupying the very bunk which I had appropriated to
   myself, and there was no other place for me to sleep in. The thought of
   lying down there now, seemed too horrible to me, and what made it worse,
   was the way in which the sailors spoke of my being frightened. And they
   took this opportunity to tell me what a hard and wicked Me I had entered
   upon, and how that such things happened frequently at sea, and they were
   used to it. But I did not believe this; for when the suicide came
   rushing and shrieking up the scuttle, they looked as frightened as I
   did; and besides that, and what makes their being frightened still
   plainer, is the fact, that if they had had any presence of mind, they
   could have prevented his plunging overboard, since he brushed right by
   them. However, they lay in then-bunks smoking, and kept talking on some
   time in this strain, and advising me as soon as ever I got home to pin
   my ears back, so as not to hold the wind, and sail straight away into
   the interior of the country, and never stop until deep in the bush, far
   off from the least running brook, never mind how shallow, and out of
   sight of even the smallest puddle of rainwater.
   This kind of talking brought the tears into my eyes, for it was so true
   and real, and the sailors who spoke it seemed so false-hearted and
   insincere; but for all that, in spite of the sickness at my heart, it
   made me mad, and stung me to the quick, that they should speak of me as
   a poor trembling coward, who could never be brought to endure the
   hardships of a sailor's life; for I felt myself trembling, and knew that
   I was but a coward then, well enough, without their telling me of it.
   And they did not say I was cowardly, because they perceived it in me,
   but because they merely supposed I must be, judging, no doubt, from
   their own secret thoughts about themselves; for I felt sure that the
   suicide frightened them very badly. And at last, being provoked to
   desperation by their taunts, I told them so to their faces; but I might
   better have kept silent; for they now all united to abuse me. They asked
   me what business I, a boy like me, had to go to sea, and take the bread
   out of the mouth of honest sailors, and fill a good seaman's place; and
   asked me whether I ever dreamed of becoming a captain, since I was a
   gentleman with white hands; and if I ever should be, they would like
   nothing better than to ship aboard my vessel and stir up a mutiny. And
   one of them, whose name was Jackson, of whom I shall have a good deal
   more to say by-and-by, said, I had better steer clear of him ever after,
   for if ever I crossed his path, or got into his way, he would be the
   death of me, and if ever I stumbled about in the rigging near him, he
   would make nothing of pitching me overboard; and that he swore too, with
   an oath. At first, all this nearly stunned me, it was so unforeseen; and
   then I could not believe that they meant what they said, or that they
   could be so cruel and black-hearted. But how could I help seeing, that
   the men who could thus talk to a poor, friendless boy, on the very first
   night of his voyage to sea, must be capable of almost any enormity. I
   loathed, detested, and hated them with all that was left of my bursting
   heart and soul, and I thought myself the most forlorn and miserable
   wretch that ever breathed. May I never be a man, thought I, if to be a
   boy is to be such a wretch. And I wailed and wept, and my heart cracked
   within me, but all the time I defied them through my teeth, and dared
   them to do their worst.
   At last they ceased talking and fell fast asleep, leaving me awake,
   seated on a chest with my face bent over my knees between my hands. And
   there I sat, till at length the dull beating against the ship's bows,
   and the silence around soothed me down, and I fell asleep as I sat.
   XI. HE HELPS WASH THE DECKS, AND THEN GOES TO BREAKFAST
   The next thing I knew, was the loud thumping of a handspike on deck as
   the watch was called again. It was now four o'clock in the morning, and
   when we got on deck the first signs of day were shining in the east. The
   men were very sleepy, and sat down on the windlass without speaking, and
   some of them nodded and nodded, till at last they fell off like little
   boys in church during a drowsy sermon. At last it was broad day, and an
   order was given to wash down the decks. A great tub was dragged into the
   waist, and then one of the men went over into the chains, and slipped in
   behind a band fastened to the shrouds, and leaning over, began to swing
   a bucket into the sea by a long rope; and in that way with much
   expertness and sleight of hand, he managed to fill the tub in a very
   short time. Then the water began to splash about all over the decks, and
   I began to think I should surely get my feet wet, and catch my death of
   cold. So I went to the chief mate, and told him I thought I would just
   step below, till this miserable wetting was over; for I did not have any
   water-proof boots, and an aunt of mine had died of consumption. But he
   only roared out for me to get a broom and go to scrubbing, or he would
   prove a worse consumption to me than ever got hold of my poor aunt. So I
   scrubbed away fore and aft, till my back was almost broke, for the
   brooms had uncommon short handles, and we were told to scrub hard.
   At length the scrubbing being over, the mate began heaving buckets of
   water about, to wash every thing clean, by way of finishing off. He must
   have thought this fine sport, just as captains of fire engines love to
   point the tube of their hose; for he kept me running after him with full
   buckets of water, and sometimes chased a little chip all over the deck,
   with a continued flood, till at last he sent it flying out of a
   scupper-hole into the sea; when if he had only given me permission, I
   could have picked it up in a trice, and dropped it overboard without
   saying one word, and without wasting so much water. But he said there
   was plenty of water in the ocean, and to spare; which was true enough,
   but then I who had to trot after him with the buckets, had no more legs
   and arms than I wanted for my own use.
   I thought this washing down the decks was the most foolish thing in the
   world, and besides that it was the most uncomfortable. It was worse than
   my mother's house-cleanings at home, which I used to abominate so.
   At eight o'clock the bell was struck, and we went to breakfast. And now
   some of the worst of my troubles began. For not having had any friend to
   tell me what I would want at sea, I had not provided myself, as I should
   have done, with a good many things that a sailor needs; and for my own
   part, it had never entered my mind, that sailors had no table to sit
   down to, no cloth, or napkins, or tumblers, and had to provide every
   thing themselves. But so it was.
