   
   The first thing they did was this. Every sailor went to the cook-house
   with his tin pot, and got it filled with coffee; but of course, having
   no pot, there was no coffee for me. And after that, a sort of little tub
   called a "kid," was passed down into the forecastle, filled with
   something they called "burgoo." This was like mush, made of Indian corn,
   meal, and water. With the "kid," a. little tin cannikin was passed down
   with molasses. Then the Jackson that I spoke of before, put the kid
   between his knees, and began to pour in the molasses, just like an old
   landlord mixing punch for a party. He scooped out a little hole in the
   middle of the mush, to hold the molasses; so it looked for all the world
   like a little black pool in the Dismal Swamp of Virginia.
   Then they all formed a circle round the kid; and one after the other,
   with great regularity, dipped their spoons into the mush, and after
   stirring them round a little in the molasses-pool, they swallowed down
   their mouthfuls, and smacked their lips over it, as if it tasted very
   good; which I have no doubt it did; but not having any spoon, I wasn't
   sure.
   I sat some time watching these proceedings, and wondering how polite
   they were to each other; for, though there were a great many spoons to
   only one dish, they never got entangled. At last, seeing that the mush
   was getting thinner and thinner, and that it was getting low water, or
   rather low molasses in the little pool, I ran on deck, and after
   searching about, returned with a bit of stick; and thinking I had as
   good a right as any one else to the mush and molasses, I worked my way
   into the circle, intending to make one of the party. So I shoved in my
   stick, and after twirling it about, was just managing to carry a little
   burgoo toward my mouth, which had been for some time standing ready open
   to receive it, when one of the sailors perceiving what I was about,
   knocked the stick out of my hands, and asked me where I learned my
   manners; Was that the way gentlemen eat in my country? Did they eat
   their victuals with splinters of wood, and couldn't that wealthy
   gentleman my father afford to buy his gentlemanly son a spoon?
   All the rest joined in, and pronounced me an ill-bred, coarse, and
   unmannerly youngster, who, if permitted to go on with such behavior as
   that, would corrupt the whole crew, and make them no better than swine.
   As I felt conscious that a stick was indeed a thing very unsuitable to
   eat with, I did not say much to this, though it vexed me enough; but
   remembering that I had seen one of the steerage passengers with a pan
   and spoon in his hand eating his breakfast on the fore hatch, I now ran
   on deck again, and to my great joy succeeded in borrowing his spoon, for
   he had got through his meal, and down I came again, though at the
   eleventh hour, and offered myself once more as a candidate.
   But alas! there was little more of the Dismal Swamp left, and when I
   reached over to the opposite end of the kid, I received a rap on the
   knuckles from a spoon, and was told that I must help myself from my own
   side, for that was the rule. But my side was scraped clean, so I got no
   burgoo that morning.
   But I made it up by eating some salt beef and biscuit, which I found to
   be the invariable accompaniment of every meal; the sailors sitting
   cross-legged on their chests in a circle, and breaking the hard biscuit,
   very sociably, over each other's heads, which was very convenient
   indeed, but gave me the headache, at least for the first four or five
   days till I got used to it; and then I did not care much about it, only
   it kept my hair full of crumbs; and I had forgot to bring a fine comb
   and brush, so I used to shake my hair out to windward over the bulwarks
   every evening.
   XII. HE GIVES SOME ACCOUNT OF ONE OF HIS SHIPMATES CALLED JACKSON
   While we sat eating our beef and biscuit, two of the men got into a
   dispute, about who had been sea-faring the longest; when Jackson, who
   had mixed the burgoo, called upon them in a loud voice to cease their
   clamor, for he would decide the matter for them. Of this sailor, I shall
   have something more to say, as I get on with my narrative; so, I will
   here try to describe him a little.
   Did you ever see a man, with his hair shaved off, and just recovered
   from the yellow fever? Well, just such a looking man was this sailor. He
   was as yellow as gamboge, had no more whisker on his cheek, than I have
   on my elbows. His hair had fallen out, and left him very bald, except in
   the nape of his neck, and just behind the ears, where it was stuck over
   with short little tufts, and looked like a worn-out shoe-brush. His nose
   had broken down in the middle, and he squinted with one eye, and did not
   look very straight out of the other. He dressed a good deal like a
   Bowery boy; for he despised the ordinary sailor-rig; wearing a pair of
   great over-all blue trowsers, fastened with suspenders, and three red
   woolen shirts, one over the other; for he was subject to the rheumatism,
   and was not in good health, he said; and he had a large white wool hat,
   with a broad rolling brim. He was a native of New York city, and had a
   good deal to say about highlanders, and rowdies, whom he denounced as
   only good for the gallows; but I thought he looked a good deal like a
   highlander himself.
   His name, as I have said, was Jackson; and he told us, he was a near
   relation of General Jackson of New Orleans, and swore terribly, if any
   one ventured to question what he asserted on that head. In fact he was a
   great bully, and being the best seaman on board, and very overbearing
   every way, all the men were afraid of him, and durst not contradict him,
   or cross his path in any thing. And what made this more wonderful was,
   that he was the weakest man, bodily, of the whole crew; and I have no
   doubt that young and small as I was then, compared to what I am now, I
   could have thrown him down. But he had such an overawing way with him;
   such a deal of brass and impudence, such an unflinching face, and withal
   was such a hideous looking mortal, that Satan himself would have run
   from him. And besides all this, it was quite plain, that he was by
   nature a marvelously clever, cunning man, though without education; and
   understood human nature to a kink, and well knew whom he had to deal
   with; and then, one glance of his squinting eye, was as good as a
   knock-down, for it was the most deep, subtle, infernal looking eye, that
   I ever saw lodged in a human head. I believe, that by good rights it
   must have belonged to a wolf, or starved tiger; at any rate, I would
   defy any oculist, to turn out a glass eye, half so cold, and snaky, and
   deadly. It was a horrible thing; and I would give much to forget that I
   have ever seen it; for it haunts me to this day.
   It was impossible to tell how old this Jackson was; for he had no beard,
   and no wrinkles, except small crowsfeet about the eyes. He might have
   seen thirty, or perhaps fifty years. But according to his own account,
   he had been to sea ever since he was eight years old, when he first went
   as a cabin-boy in an Indiaman, and ran away at Calcutta. And according
   to his own account, too, he had passed through every kind of dissipation
   and abandonment in the worst parts of the world. He had served in
   Portuguese slavers on the coast of Africa; and with a diabolical relish
   used to tell of the middle-passage, where the slaves were stowed, heel
   and point, like logs, and the suffocated and dead were unmanacled, and
   weeded out from the living every morning, before washing down the decks;
   how he had been in a slaving schooner, which being chased by an English
   cruiser off Cape Verde, received three shots in her hull, which raked
   through and through a whole file of slaves, that were chained.
   He would tell of lying in Batavia during a fever, when his ship lost a
   man every few days, and how they went reeling ashore with the body, and
   got still more intoxicated by way of precaution against the plague. He
   would talk of finding a cobra-di-capello, or hooded snake, under his
   pillow in India, when he slept ashore there. He would talk of sailors
   being poisoned at Canton with drugged "shampoo," for the sake of their
   money; and of the Malay ruffians, who stopped ships in the straits of
   Caspar, and always saved the captain for the last, so as to make him
   point out where the most valuable goods were stored.
   His whole talk was of this land; full of piracies, plagues and
   poisonings. And often he narrated many passages in his own individual
   career, which were almost incredible, from the consideration that few
   men could have plunged into such infamous vices, and clung to them so
   long, without paying the death-penalty.
   But in truth, he carried about with him the traces of these things, and
   the mark of a fearful end nigh at hand; like that of King Antiochus of
   Syria, who died a worse death, history says, than if he had been stung
   out of the world by wasps and hornets.
   Nothing was left of this Jackson but the foul lees and dregs of a man;
   he was thin as a shadow; nothing but skin and bones; and sometimes used
   to complain, that it hurt him to sit on the hard chests. And I sometimes
   fancied, it was the consciousness of his miserable, broken-down
   condition, and the prospect of soon dying like a dog, in consequence of
   his sins, that made this poor wretch always eye me with such malevolence
   as he did. For I was young and handsome, at least my mother so thought
   me, and as soon as I became a little used to the sea, and shook off my
   low spirits somewhat, I began to have my old color in my cheeks, and,
   spite of misfortune, to appear well and hearty; whereas he was being
   consumed by an incurable malady, that was eating up his vitals, and was
   more fit for a hospital than a ship.
