   
   As I am sometimes by nature inclined to indulge in unauthorized
   surmisings about the thoughts going on with regard to me, in the people
   I meet; especially if I have reason to think they dislike me; I will not
   put it down for a certainty that what I suspected concerning this
   Jackson relative to his thoughts of me, was really the truth. But only
   state my honest opinion, and how it struck me at the time; and even now,
   I think I was not wrong. And indeed, unless it was so, how could I
   account to myself, for the shudder that would run through me, when I
   caught this man gazing at me, as I often did; for he was apt to be dumb
   at times, and would sit with his eyes fixed, and his teeth set, like a
   man in the moody madness.
   I well remember the first time I saw him, and how I was startled at his
   eye, which was even then fixed upon me. He was standing at the ship's
   helm, being the first man that got there, when a steersman was called
   for by the pilot; for this Jackson was always on the alert for easy
   duties, and used to plead his delicate health as the reason for assuming
   them, as he did; though I used to think, that for a man in poor health,
   he was very swift on the legs; at least when a good place was to be
   jumped to; though that might only have been a sort of spasmodic exertion
   under strong inducements, which every one knows the greatest invalids
   will sometimes show.
   And though the sailors were always very bitter against any thing like
   sogering, as they called it; that is, any thing that savored of a desire
   to get rid of downright hard work; yet, I observed that, though this
   Jackson was a notorious old soger the whole voyage (I mean, in all
   things not perilous to do, from which he was far from hanging back), and
   in truth was a great veteran that way, and one who must have passed
   unhurt through many campaigns; yet, they never presumed to call him to
   account in any way; or to let him so much as think, what they thought of
   his conduct. But I often heard them call him many hard names behind his
   back; and sometimes, too, when, perhaps, they had just been tenderly
   inquiring after his health before his face. They all stood in mortal
   fear of him; and cringed and fawned about him like so many spaniels; and
   used to rub his back, after he was undressed and lying in his bunk; and
   used to run up on deck to the cook-house, to warm some cold coffee for
   him; and used to fill his pipe, and give him chews of tobacco, and mend
   his jackets and trowsers; and used to watch, and tend, and nurse him
   every way. And all the time, he would sit scowling on them, and found
   fault with what they did; and I noticed, that those who did the most for
   him, and cringed the most before him, were the very ones he most abused;
   while two or three who held more aloof, he treated with a little
   consideration.
   It is not for me to say, what it was that made a whole ship's company
   submit so to the whims of one poor miserable man like Jackson. I only
   know that so it was; but I have no doubt, that if he had had a blue eye
   in his head, or had had a different face from what he did have, they
   would not have stood in such awe of him. And it astonished me, to see
   that one of the seamen, a remarkably robust and good-humored young man
   from Belfast in Ireland, was a person of no mark or influence among the
   crew; but on the contrary was hooted at, and trampled upon, and made a
   butt and laughing-stock; and more than all, was continually being abused
   and snubbed by Jackson, who seemed to hate him cordially, because of his
   great strength and fine person, and particularly because of his red
   cheeks.
   But then, this Belfast man, although he had shipped for an able-seaman,
   was not much of a sailor; and that always lowers a man in the eyes of a
   ship's company; I mean, when he ships for an able-seaman, but is not
   able to do the duty of one. For sailors are of three classes--
   able-seaman, ordinary-seaman, and boys; and they receive different
   wages according to their rank. Generally, a ship's company of twelve
   men will only have five or six able seamen, who if they prove to
   understand their duty every way (and that is no small matter either, as
   I shall hereafter show, perhaps), are looked up to, and thought much of
   by the ordinary-seamen and boys, who reverence their very pea-jackets,
   and lay up their sayings in their hearts.
   But you must not think from this, that persons called boys aboard
   merchant-ships are all youngsters, though to be sure, I myself was
   called a boy, and a boy I was. No. In merchant-ships, a boy means a
   green-hand, a landsman on his first voyage. And never mind if he is old
   enough to be a grandfather, he is still called a boy; and boys' work is
   put upon him.
   But I am straying off from what I was going to say about Jackson's
   putting an end to the dispute between the two sailors in the forecastle
   after breakfast. After they had been disputing some time about who had
   been to sea the longest, Jackson told them to stop talking; and then
   bade one of them open his mouth; for, said he, I can tell a sailor's age
   just like a horse's--by his teeth. So the man laughed, and opened his
   mouth; and Jackson made him step out under the scuttle, where the light
   came down from deck; and then made him throw his head back, while he
   looked into it, and probed a little with his jackknife, like a baboon
   peering into a junk-bottle. I trembled for the poor fellow, just as if I
   had seen him under the hands of a crazy barber, making signs to cut his
   throat, and he all the while sitting stock still, with the lather on, to
   be shaved. For I watched Jackson's eye and saw it snapping, and a sort
   of going in and out, very quick, as if it were something like a forked
   tongue; and somehow, I felt as if he were longing to kill the man; but
   at last he grew more composed, and after concluding his examination,
   said, that the first man was the oldest sailor, for the ends of his
   teeth were the evenest and most worn down; which, he said, arose from
   eating so much hard sea-biscuit; and this was the reason he could tell a
   sailor's age like a horse's.
   At this, every body made merry, and looked at each other, as much as to
   say--come, boys, let's laugh; and they did laugh; and declared it was a
   rare joke.
   This was always the way with them. They made a point of shouting out,
   whenever Jackson said any thing with a grin; that being the sign to them
   that he himself thought it funny; though I heard many good jokes from
   others pass off without a smile; and once Jackson himself (for, to tell
   the truth, he sometimes had a comical way with him, that is, when his
   back did not ache) told a truly funny story, but with a grave face;
   when, not knowing how he meant it, whether for a laugh or otherwise,
   they all sat still, waiting what to do, and looking perplexed enough;
   till at last Jackson roared out upon them for a parcel of fools and
   idiots; and told them to their beards, how it was; that he had purposely
   put on his grave face, to see whether they would not look grave, too;
   even when he was telling something that ought to split their sides. And
   with that, he flouted, and jeered at them, and laughed them all to
   scorn; and broke out in such a rage, that his lips began to glue
   together at the corners with a fine white foam.
   He seemed to be full of hatred and gall against every thing and every
   body in the world; as if all the world was one person, and had done him
   some dreadful harm, that was rankling and festering in his heart.
   Sometimes I thought he was really crazy; and often felt so frightened at
   him, that I thought of going to the captain about it, and telling him
   Jackson ought to be confined, lest he should do some terrible thing at
   last. But upon second thoughts, I always gave it up; for the captain
   would only have called me a fool, and sent me forward again.
   But you must not think that all the sailors were alike in abasing
   themselves before this man. No: there were three or four who used to
   stand up sometimes against him; and when he was absent at the wheel,
   would plot against him among the other sailors, and tell them what a
   shame and ignominy it was, that such a poor miserable wretch should be
   such a tyrant over much better men than himself. And they begged and
   conjured them as men, to put up with it no longer, but the very next
   time, that Jackson presumed to play the dictator, that they should all
   withstand him, and let him know his place. Two or three times nearly all
   hands agreed to it, with the exception of those who used to slink off
   during such discussions; and swore that they would not any more submit
   to being ruled by Jackson. But when the time came to make good their
   oaths, they were mum again, and let every thing go on the old way; so
   that those who had put them up to it, had to bear all the brunt of
   Jackson's wrath by themselves. And though these last would stick up a
   little at first, and even mutter something about a fight to Jackson; yet
   in the end, finding themselves unbefriended by the rest, they would
   gradually become silent, and leave the field to the tyrant, who would
   then fly out worse than ever, and dare them to do their worst, and jeer
   at them for white-livered poltroons, who did not have a mouthful of
   heart in them. At such times, there were no bounds to his contempt; and
   indeed, all the time he seemed to have even more contempt than hatred,
   for every body and every thing.
   As for me, I was but a boy; and at any time aboard ship, a boy is
   expected to keep quiet, do what he is bid, never presume to interfere,
   and seldom to talk, unless spoken to. For merchant sailors have a great
   idea of their dignity, and superiority to greenhorns and landsmen, who
   know nothing about a ship; and they seem to think, that an able seaman
   is a great man; at least a much greater man than a little boy. And the
   able seamen in the Highlander had such grand notions about their
   seamanship, that I almost thought that able seamen received diplomas,
   like those given at colleges; and were made a sort A.M.S, or Masters of
   Arts.
   But though I kept thus quiet, and had very little to say, and well knew
   that my best plan was to get along peaceably with every body, and indeed
   endure a good deal before showing fight, yet I could not avoid Jackson's
   evil eye, nor escape his bitter enmity. And his being my foe, set many
   of the rest against me; or at least they were afraid to speak out for me
   before Jackson; so that at last I found myself a sort of Ishmael in the
   ship, without a single friend or companion; and I began to feel a hatred
   growing up in me against the whole crew--so much so, that I prayed
   against it, that it might not master my heart completely, and so make a
   fiend of me, something like Jackson.
   XII. HE HAS A FINE DAY AT SEA, BEGINS TO LIKE IT; BUT CHANGES HIS MIND
   The second day out of port, the decks being washed down and breakfast
   over, the watch was called, and the mate set us to work.
   It was a very bright day. The sky and water were both of the same deep
   hue; and the air felt warm and sunny; so that we threw off our jackets.
   I could hardly believe that I was sailing in the same ship I had been in
   during the night, when every thing had been so lonely and dim; and I
   could hardly imagine that this was the same ocean, now so beautiful and
   blue, that during part of the night-watch had rolled along so black and
   forbidding.
