   
   XIV. HE CONTEMPLATES MAKING A SOCIAL CALL ON THE CAPTAIN IN HIS CABIN
   What reminded me most forcibly of my ignominious condition, was the
   widely altered manner of the captain toward me.
   I had thought him a fine, funny gentleman, full of mirth and good humor,
   and good will to seamen, and one who could not fail to appreciate the
   difference between me and the rude sailors among whom I was thrown.
   Indeed, I had made no doubt that he would in some special manner take me
   under his protection, and prove a kind friend and benefactor to me; as I
   had heard that some sea-captains are fathers to their crew; and so they
   are; but such fathers as Solomon's precepts tend to make--severe and
   chastising fathers, fathers whose sense of duty overcomes the sense of
   love, and who every day, in some sort, play the part of Brutus, who
   ordered his son away to execution, as I have read in our old family
   Plutarch.
   Yes, I thought that Captain Riga, for Riga was his name, would be
   attentive and considerate to me, and strive to cheer me up, and comfort
   me in my lonesomeness. I did not even deem it at all impossible that he
   would invite me down into the cabin of a pleasant night, to ask me
   questions concerning my parents, and prospects in life; besides
   obtaining from me some anecdotes touching my great-uncle, the
   illustrious senator; or give me a slate and pencil, and teach me
   problems in navigation; or perhaps engage me at a game of chess. I even
   thought he might invite me to dinner on a sunny Sunday, and help me
   plentifully to the nice cabin fare, as knowing how distasteful the salt
   beef and pork, and hard biscuit of the forecastle must at first be to a
   boy like me, who had always lived ashore, and at home.
   And I could not help regarding him with peculiar emotions, almost of
   tenderness and love, as the last visible link in the chain of
   associations which bound me to my home. For, while yet in port, I had
   seen him and Mr. Jones, my brother's friend, standing together and
   conversing; so that from the captain to my brother there was but one
   intermediate step; and my brother and mother and sisters were one.
   And this reminds me how often I used to pass by the places on deck,
   where I remembered Mr. Jones had stood when we first visited the ship
   lying at the wharf; and how I tried to convince myself that it was
   indeed true, that he had stood there, though now the ship was so far
   away on the wide Atlantic Ocean, and he perhaps was walking down
   Wall-street, or sitting reading the newspaper in his counting room,
   while poor I was so differently employed.
   When two or three days had passed without the captain's speaking to me
   in any way, or sending word into the forecastle that he wished me to
   drop into the cabin to pay my respects. I began to think whether I
   should not make the first advances, and whether indeed he did not expect
   it of me, since I was but a boy, and he a man; and perhaps that might
   have been the reason why he had not spoken to me yet, deeming it more
   proper and respectful for me to address him first. I thought he might be
   offended, too, especially if he were a proud man, with tender feelings.
   So one evening, a little before sundown, in the second dog-watch, when
   there was no more work to be done, I concluded to call and see him.
   After drawing a bucket of water, and having a good washing, to get off
   some of the chicken-coop stains, I went down into the forecastle to
   dress myself as neatly as I could. I put on a white shirt in place of my
   red one, and got into a pair of cloth trowsers instead of my duck ones,
   and put on my new pumps, and then carefully brushing my shooting-jacket,
   I put that on over all, so that upon the whole, I made quite a genteel
   figure, at least for a forecastle, though I would not have looked so
   well in a drawing-room.
   When the sailors saw me thus employed, they did not know what to make of
   it, and wanted to know whether I was dressing to go ashore; I told them
   no, for we were then out of sight of mind; but that I was going to pay
   my respects to the captain. Upon which they all laughed and shouted, as
   if I were a simpleton; though there seemed nothing so very simple in
   going to make an evening call upon a friend. When some of them tried to
   dissuade me, saying I was green and raw; but Jackson, who sat looking
   on, cried out, with a hideous grin, "Let him go, let him go, men--he's a
   nice boy. Let him go; the captain has some nuts and raisins for him."
   And so he was going on, when one of his violent fits of coughing seized
   him, and he almost choked.
   As I was about leaving the forecastle, I happened to look at my hands,
   and seeing them stained all over of a deep yellow, for that morning the
   mate had set me to tarring some strips of canvas for the rigging I
   thought it would never do to present myself before a gentleman that way;
   so for want of lads, I slipped on a pair of woolen mittens, which my
   mother had knit for me to carry to sea. As I was putting them on,
   Jackson asked me whether he shouldn't call a carriage; and another bade
   me not forget to present his best respects to the skipper. I left them
   all tittering, and coming on deck was passing the cook-house, when the
   old cook called after me, saying I had forgot my cane.
   But I did not heed their impudence, and was walking straight toward the
   cabin-door on the quarter-deck, when the chief mate met me. I touched my
   hat, and was passing him, when, after staring at me till I thought his
   eyes would burst out, he all at once caught me by the collar, and with a
   voice of thunder, wanted to know what I meant by playing such tricks
   aboard a ship that he was mate of? I told him to let go of me, or I
   would complain to my friend the captain, whom I intended to visit that
   evening. Upon this he gave me such a whirl round, that I thought the
   Gulf Stream was in my head; and then shoved me forward, roaring out I
   know not what. Meanwhile the sailors were all standing round the
   windlass looking aft, mightily tickled.
   Seeing I could not effect my object that night, I thought it best to
   defer it for the present; and returning among the sailors, Jackson asked
   me how I had found the captain, and whether the next time I went, I
   would not take a friend along and introduce him.
   The upshot of this business was, that before I went to sleep that night,
   I felt well satisfied that it was not customary for sailors to call on
   the captain in the cabin; and I began to have an inkling of the fact,
   that I had acted like a fool; but it all arose from my ignorance of sea
   usages.
   And here I may as well state, that I never saw the inside of the cabin
   during the whole interval that elapsed from our sailing till our return
   to New York; though I often used to get a peep at it through a little
   pane of glass, set in the house on deck, just before the helm, where a
   watch was kept hanging for the helmsman to strike the half hours by,
   with his little bell in the binnacle, where the compass was. And it used
   to be the great amusement of the sailors to look in through the pane of
   glass, when they stood at the wheel, and watch the proceedings in the
   cabin; especially when the steward was setting the table for dinner, or
   the captain was lounging over a decanter of wine on a little mahogany
   stand, or playing the game called solitaire, at cards, of an evening;
   for at times he was all alone with his dignity; though, as will ere long
   be shown, he generally had one pleasant companion, whose society he did
   not dislike.
   The day following my attempt to drop in at the cabin, I happened to be
   making fast a rope on the quarter-deck, when the captain suddenly made
   his appearance, promenading up and down, and smoking a cigar. He looked
   very good-humored and amiable, and it being just after his dinner, I
   thought that this, to be sure, was just the chance I wanted.
   I waited a little while, thinking he would speak to me himself; but as
   he did not, I went up to him, and began by saying it was a very pleasant
   day, and hoped he was very well. I never saw a man fly into such a rage;
   I thought he was going to knock me down; but after standing speechless
   awhile, he all at once plucked his cap from his head and threw it at me.
   I don't know what impelled me, but I ran to the lee-scuppers where it
   fell, picked it up, and gave it to him with a bow; when the mate came
   running up, and thrust me forward again; and after he had got me as far
   as the windlass, he wanted to know whether I was crazy or not; for if I
   was, he would put me in irons right off, and have done with it.
   But I assured him I was in my right mind, and knew perfectly well that I
   had been treated in the most rude and un-gentlemanly manner both by him
   and Captain Riga. Upon this, he rapped out a great oath, and told me if
   I ever repeated what I had done that evening, or ever again presumed so
   much as to lift my hat to the captain, he would tie me into the rigging,
   and keep me there until I learned better manners. "You are very green,"
   said he, "but I'll ripen you." Indeed this chief mate seemed to have the
   keeping of the dignity of the captain; who, in some sort, seemed too
   dignified personally to protect his own dignity.
   I thought this strange enough, to be reprimanded, and charged with
   rudeness for an act of common civility. However, seeing how matters
   stood, I resolved to let the captain alone for the future, particularly
   as he had shown himself so deficient in the ordinary breeding of a
   gentleman. And I could hardly credit it, that this was the same man who
   had been so very civil, and polite, and witty, when Mr. Jones and I
   called upon him in port.
   But this astonishment of mine was much increased, when some days after,
   a storm came upon us, and the captain rushed out of the cabin in his
   nightcap, and nothing else but his shirt on; and leaping up on the poop,
   began to jump up and down, and curse and swear, and call the men aloft
   all manner of hard names, just like a common loafer in the street.
