   
   Besides all this, too, I noticed that while we were at sea, he wore
   nothing but old shabby clothes, very different from the glossy suit I
   had seen him in at our first interview, and after that on the steps of
   the City Hotel, where he always boarded when in New York. Now, he wore
   nothing but old-fashioned snuff-colored coats, with high collars and
   short waists; and faded, short-legged pantaloons, very tight about the
   knees; and vests, that did not conceal his waistbands, owing to their
   being so short, just like a little boy's. And his hats were all caved
   in, and battered, as if they had been knocked about in a cellar; and his
   boots were sadly patched. Indeed, I began to think that he was but a
   shabby fellow after all; particularly as his whiskers lost their gloss,
   and he went days together without shaving; and his hair, by a sort of
   miracle, began to grow of a pepper and salt color, which might have been
   owing, though, to his discontinuing the use of some kind of dye while at
   sea. I put him down as a sort of impostor; and while ashore, a gentleman
   on false pretenses; for no gentleman would have treated another
   gentleman as he did me.
   Yes, Captain Riga, thought I, you are no gentleman, and you know it!
   XV. THE MELANCHOLY STATE OF HIS WARDROBE
   And now that I have been speaking of the captain's old clothes, I may as
   well speak of mine.
   It was very early in the month of June that we sailed; and I had greatly
   rejoiced that it was that time of the year; for it would be warm and
   pleasant upon the ocean, I thought; and my voyage would be like a summer
   excursion to the sea shore, for the benefit of the salt water, and a
   change of scene and society.
   So I had not given myself much concern about what I should wear; and
   deemed it wholly unnecessary to provide myself with a great outfit of
   pilot-cloth jackets, and browsers, and Guernsey frocks, and oil-skin
   suits, and sea-boots, and many other things, which old seamen carry in
   their chests. But one reason was, that I did not have the money to buy
   them with, even if I had wanted to. So in addition to the clothes I had
   brought from home, I had only bought a red shirt, a tarpaulin hat, and a
   belt and knife, as I have previously related, which gave me a sea
   outfit, something like the Texan rangers', whose uniform, they say,
   consists of a shirt collar and a pair of spurs.
   But I was not many days at sea, when I found that my shore clothing, or
   "long togs," as the sailors call them, were but ill adapted to the life
   I now led. When I went aloft, at my yard-arm gymnastics, my pantaloons
   were all the time ripping and splitting in every direction, particularly
   about the seat, owing to their not being cut sailor-fashion, with low
   waistbands, and to wear without suspenders. So that I was often placed
   in most unpleasant predicaments, straddling the rigging, sometimes in
   plain sight of the cabin, with my table linen exposed in the most
   inelegant and ungentlemanly manner possible.
   And worse than all, my best pair of pantaloons, and the pair I most
   prided myself upon, was a very conspicuous and remarkable looking pair.
   I had had them made to order by our village tailor, a little fat man,
   very thin in the legs, and who used to say he imported the latest
   fashions direct from Paris; though all the fashion plates in his shop
   were very dirty with fly-marks.
   Well, this tailor made the pantaloons I speak of, and while he had them
   in hand, I used to call and see him two or three times a day to try them
   on, and hurry him forward; for he was an old man with large round
   spectacles, and could not see very well, and had no one to help him but
   a sick wife, with five grandchildren to take care of; and besides that,
   he was such a great snuff-taker, that it interfered with his business;
   for he took several pinches for every stitch, and would sit snuffing and
   blowing his nose over my pantaloons, till I used to get disgusted with
   him. Now, this old tailor had shown me the pattern, after which he
   intended to make my pantaloons; but I improved upon it, and bade him
   have a slit on the outside of each leg, at the foot, to button up with a
   row of six brass bell buttons; for a grown-up cousin of mine, who was a
   great sportsman, used to wear a beautiful pair of pantaloons, made
   precisely in that way.
   And these were the very pair I now had at sea; the sailors made a great
   deal of fun of them, and were all the time calling on each other to
   "ftoig" them; and they would ask me to lend them a button or two, by way
   of a joke; and then they would ask me if I was not a soldier. Showing
   very plainly that they had no idea that my pantaloons were a very
   genteel pair, made in the height of the sporting fashion, and copied
   from my cousin's, who was a young man of fortune and drove a tilbury.
   When my pantaloons ripped and tore, as I have said, I did my best to
   mend and patch them; but not being much of a sempstress, the more I
   patched the more they parted; because I put my patches on, without
   heeding the joints of the legs, which only irritated my poor pants the
   more, and put them out of temper.
   Nor must I forget my boots, which were almost new when I left home. They
   had been my Sunday boots, and fitted me to a charm. I never had had a
   pair of boots that I liked better; I used to turn my toes out when I
   walked in them, unless it was night time, when no one could see me, and
   I had something else to think of; and I used to keep looking at them
   during church; so that I lost a good deal of the sermon. In a word, they
   were a beautiful pair of boots. But all this only unfitted them the more
   for sea-service; as I soon discovered. They had very high heels, which
   were all the time tripping me in the rigging, and several times came
   near pitching me overboard; and the salt water made them shrink in such
   a manner, that they pinched me terribly about the instep; and I was
   obliged to gash them cruelly, which went to my very heart. The legs were
   quite long, coming a good way up toward my knees, and the edges were
   mounted with red morocco. The sailors used to call them my "gaff-
   topsail-boots." And sometimes they used to call me "Boots," and
   sometimes "Buttons," on account of the ornaments on my pantaloons and
   shooting-jacket.
   At last, I took their advice, and "razeed" them, as they phrased it.
   That is, I amputated the legs, and shaved off the heels to the bare
   soles; which, however, did not much improve them, for it made my feet
   feel flat as flounders, and besides, brought me down in the world, and
   made me slip and slide about the decks, as I used to at home, when I
   wore straps on the ice.
   As for my tarpaulin hat, it was a very cheap one; and therefore proved a
   real sham and shave; it leaked like an old shingle roof; and in a rain
   storm, kept my hair wet and disagreeable. Besides, from lying down on
   deck in it, during the night watches, it got bruised and battered, and
   lost all its beauty; so that it was unprofitable every way.
   But I had almost forgotten my shooting-jacket, which was made of
   moleskin. Every day, it grew smaller and smaller, particularly after a
   rain, until at last I thought it would completely exhale, and leave
   nothing but the bare seams, by way of a skeleton, on my back. It became
   unspeakably unpleasant, when we got into rather cold weather, crossing
   the Banks of Newfoundland, when the only way I had to keep warm during
   the night, was to pull on my waistcoat and my roundabout, and then clap
   the shooting-jacket over all. This made it pinch me under the arms, and
   it vexed, irritated, and tormented me every way; and used to incommode
   my arms seriously when I was pulling the ropes; so much so, that the
   mate asked me once if I had the cramp.
