   
   "I want two," said he.
   "Take that or nothing," I answered; "it is all I have."
   I thought he would strike me. But, accepting the money, he contented
   himself with saying something about sportsmen going on shooting
   expeditions, without having money to pay their expenses; and hinted that
   such chaps might better lay aside their fowling-pieces, and assume the
   buck and saw. He then passed on, and left every eye fastened upon me.
   I stood their gazing some time, but at last could stand it no more. I
   pushed my seat right up before the most insolent gazer, a short fat man,
   with a plethora of cravat round his neck, and fixing my gaze on his,
   gave him more gazes than he sent. This somewhat embarrassed him, and he
   looked round for some one to take hold of me; but no one coming, he
   pretended to be very busy counting the gilded wooden beams overhead. I
   then turned to the next gazer, and clicking my gun-lock, deliberately
   presented the piece at him.
   Upon this, he overset his seat in his eagerness to get beyond my range,
   for I had him point blank, full in the left eye; and several persons
   starting to their feet, exclaimed that I must be crazy. So I was at that
   time; for otherwise I know not how to account for my demoniac feelings,
   of which I was afterward heartily ashamed, as I ought to have been,
   indeed; and much more than that.
   I then turned on my heel, and shouldering my fowling-piece and bundle,
   marched on deck, and walked there through the dreary storm, till I was
   wet through, and the boat touched the wharf at New York.
   Such is boyhood.
   III. HE ARRIVES IN TOWN
   From the boat's bow, I jumped ashore, before she was secured, and
   following my brother's directions, proceeded across the town toward St.
   John's Park, to the house of a college friend of his, for whom I had a
   letter.
   It was a long walk; and I stepped in at a sort of grocery to get a drink
   of water, where some six or eight rough looking fellows were playing
   dominoes upon the counter, seated upon cheese boxes. They winked, and
   asked what sort of sport I had had gunning on such a rainy day, but I
   only gulped down my water and stalked off.
   Dripping like a seal, I at last grounded arms at the doorway of my
   brother's friend, rang the bell and inquired for him.
   "What do you want?" said the servant, eying me as if I were a
   housebreaker.
   "I want to see your lord and master; show me into the parlor."
   Upon this my host himself happened to make his appearance, and seeing
   who I was, opened his hand and heart to me at once, and drew me to his
   fireside; he had received a letter from my brother, and had expected me
   that day.
   The family were at tea; the fragrant herb filled the room with its
   aroma; the brown toast was odoriferous; and everything pleasant and
   charming. After a temporary warming, I was shown to a room, where I
   changed my wet dress, an returning to the table, found that the interval
   had been we improved by my hostess; a meal for a traveler was spread and
   I laid into it sturdily. Every mouthful pushed the devil that had been
   tormenting me all day farther and farther out of me, till at last I
   entirely ejected him with three successive bowls of Bohea.
   Magic of kind words, and kind deeds, and good tea! That night I went to
   bed thinking the world pretty tolerable, after all; and I could hardly
   believe that I had really acted that morning as I had, for I was
   naturally of an easy and forbearing disposition; though when such a
   disposition is temporarily roused, it is perhaps worse than a
   cannibal's.
