   
   I may as well here glance at some trials and tribulations of a similar
   kind. I had no mattress, or bed-clothes, of any sort; for the thought of
   them had never entered my mind before going to sea; so that I was
   obliged to sleep on the bare boards of my bunk; and when the ship
   pitched violently, and almost stood upon end, I must have looked like an
   Indian baby tied to a plank, and hung up against a tree like a crucifix.
   I have already mentioned my total want of table-tools; never dreaming,
   that, in this respect, going to sea as a sailor was something like going
   to a boarding-school, where you must furnish your own spoon and knife,
   fork, and napkin. But at length, I was so happy as to barter with a
   steerage passenger a silk handkerchief of mine for a half-gallon iron
   pot, with hooks to it, to hang on a grate; and this pot I used to
   present at the cook-house for my allowance of coffee and tea. It gave me
   a good deal of trouble, though, to keep it clean, being much disposed to
   rust; and the hooks sometimes scratched my face when I was drinking; and
   it was unusually large and heavy; so that my breakfasts were deprived of
   all ease and satisfaction, and became a toil and a labor to me. And I
   was forced to use the same pot for my bean-soup, three times a week,
   which imparted to it a bad flavor for coffee.
   I can not tell how I really suffered in many ways for my improvidence
   and heedlessness, in going to sea so ill provided with every thing
   calculated to make my situation at all comfortable, or even tolerable.
   In time, my wretched "long togs" began to drop off my back, and I looked
   like a Sam Patch, shambling round the deck in my rags and the wreck of
   my gaff-topsail-boots. I often thought what my friends at home would
   have said, if they could but get one peep at me. But I hugged myself in
   my miserable shooting-jacket, when I considered that that degradation
   and shame never could overtake me; yet, I thought it a galling mockery,
   when I remembered that my sisters had promised to tell all inquiring
   friends, that Wellingborough had gone "abroad" just as if I was visiting
   Europe on a tour with my tutor, as poor simple Mr. Jones had hinted to
   the captain.
   Still, in spite of the melancholy which sometimes overtook me, there
   were several little incidents that made me forget myself in the
   contemplation of the strange and to me most wonderful sights of the sea.
   And perhaps nothing struck into me such a feeling of wild romance, as a
   view of the first vessel we spoke. It was of a clear sunny afternoon,
   and she came bearing down upon us, a most beautiful sight, with all her
   sails spread wide. She came very near, and passed under our stern; and
   as she leaned over to the breeze, showed her decks fore and aft; and I
   saw the strange sailors grouped upon the forecastle, and the cook
   look-cook-house with a ladle in his hand, and the captain in a green
   jacket sitting on the taffrail with a speaking-trumpet.
   And here, had this vessel come out of the infinite blue ocean, with all
   these human beings on board, and the smoke tranquilly mounting up into
   the sea-air from the cook's funnel as if it were a chimney in a city;
   and every thing looking so cool, and calm, and of-course, in the midst
   of what to me, at least, seemed a superlative marvel.
   Hoisted at her mizzen-peak was a red flag, with a turreted white castle
   in the middle, which looked foreign enough, and made me stare all the
   harder.
   Our captain, who had put on another hat and coat, and was lounging in an
   elegant attitude on the poop, now put his high polished brass trumpet to
   his mouth, and said in a very rude voice for conversation, "Where from?"
   To which the other captain rejoined with some outlandish Dutch
   gibberish, of which we could only make out, that the ship belonged to
   Hamburg, as her flag denoted.
   Hamburg!
   Bless my soul! and here I am on the great Atlantic Ocean, actually
   beholding a ship from Holland! It was passing strange. In my intervals
   of leisure from other duties, I followed the strange ship till she was
   quite a little speck in the distance.
   I could not but be struck with the manner of the two sea-captains during
   their brief interview. Seated at their ease on their respective "poops"
   toward the stern of their ships, while the sailors were obeying their
   behests; they touched hats to each other, exchanged compliments, and
   drove on, with all the indifference of two Arab horsemen accosting each
   other on an airing in the Desert. To them, I suppose, the great Atlantic
   Ocean was a puddle.
   XVI. AT DEAD OF NIGHT HE IS SENT UP TO LOOSE THE MAIN-SKYSAIL
   I must now run back a little, and tell of my first going aloft at middle
   watch, when the sea was quite calm, and the breeze was mild.
   The order was given to loose the main-skysail, which is the fifth and
   highest sail from deck. It was a very small sail, and from the
   forecastle looked no bigger than a cambric pocket-handkerchief. But I
   have heard that some ships carry still smaller sails, above the skysail;
   called moon-sails, and skyscrapers, and cloud-rakers. But I shall not
   believe in them till I see them; a skysail seems high enough in all
   conscience; and the idea of any thing higher than that, seems
   preposterous. Besides, it looks almost like tempting heaven, to brush
   the very firmament so, and almost put the eyes of the stars out; when a
   flaw of wind, too, might very soon take the conceit out of these
   cloud-defying cloud-rakers.
   Now, when the order was passed to loose the skysail, an old Dutch sailor
   came up to me, and said, "Buttons, my boy, it's high time you be doing
   something; and it's boy's business, Buttons, to loose de royals, and not
   old men's business, like me. Now, d'ye see dat leelle fellow way up
   dare? dare, just behind dem stars dare: well, tumble up, now, Buttons, I
   zay, and looze him; way you go, Buttons."
