   
   All the rest joining in, and seeming unanimous in the opinion, that it
   was high time for me to be stirring myself, and doing boy's business, as
   they called it, I made no more ado, but jumped into the rigging. Up I
   went, not dating to look down, but keeping my eyes glued, as it were, to
   the shrouds, as I ascended.
   It was a long road up those stairs, and I began to pant and breathe
   hard, before I was half way. But I kept at it till I got to the Jacob's
   Ladder; and they may well call it so, for it took me almost into the
   clouds; and at last, to my own amazement, I found myself hanging on the
   skysail-yard, holding on might and main to the mast; and curling my feet
   round the rigging, as if they were another pair of hands.
   For a few moments I stood awe-stricken and mute. I could not see far out
   upon the ocean, owing to the darkness of the night; and from my lofty
   perch, the sea looked like a great, black gulf, hemmed in, all round, by
   beetling black cliffs. I seemed all alone; treading the midnight clouds;
   and every second, expected to find myself falling--falling--falling, as I
   have felt when the nightmare has been on me.
   I could but just perceive the ship below me, like a long narrow plank in
   the water; and it did not seem to belong at all to the yard, over which
   I was hanging. A gull, or some sort of sea-fowl, was flying round the
   truck over my head, within a few yards of my face; and it almost
   frightened me to hear it; it seemed so much like a spirit, at such a
   lofty and solitary height.
   Though there was a pretty smooth sea, and little wind; yet, at this
   extreme elevation, the ship's motion was very great; so that when the
   ship rolled one way, I felt something as a fly must feel, walking the
   ceiling; and when it rolled the other way, I felt as if I was hanging
   along a slanting pine-tree.
   But presently I heard a distant, hoarse noise from below; and though I
   could not make out any thing intelligible, I knew it was the mate
   hurrying me. So in a nervous, trembling desperation, I went to casting
   off the gaskets, or lines tying up the sail; and when all was ready,
   sung out as I had been told, to "hoist away!" And hoist they did, and me
   too along with the yard and sail; for I had no time to get off, they
   were so unexpectedly quick about it. It seemed like magic; there I was,
   going up higher and higher; the yard rising under me, as if it were
   alive, and no soul in sight. Without knowing it at the time, I was in a
   good deal of danger, but it was so dark that I could not see well enough
   to feel afraid--at least on that account; though I felt frightened enough
   in a promiscuous way. I only held on hard, and made good the saying of
   old sailors, that the last person to fall overboard from the rigging is
   a landsman, because he grips the ropes so fiercely; whereas old tars are
   less careful, and sometimes pay the penalty.
   After this feat, I got down rapidly on deck, and received something like
   a compliment from Max the Dutchman.
   This man was perhaps the best natured man among the crew; at any rate,
   he treated me better than the rest did; and for that reason he deserves
   some mention.
   Max was an old bachelor of a sailor, very precise about his wardrobe,
   and prided himself greatly upon his seamanship, and entertained some
   straight-laced, old-fashioned notions about the duties of boys at sea.
   His hair, whiskers, and cheeks were of a fiery red; and as he wore a red
   shirt, he was altogether the most combustible looking man I ever saw.
   Nor did his appearance belie him; for his temper was very inflammable;
   and at a word, he would explode in a shower of hard words and
   imprecations. It was Max that several times set on foot those
   conspiracies against Jackson, which I have spoken of before; but he
   ended by paying him a grumbling homage, full of resentful reservations.
   Max sometimes manifested some little interest in my welfare; and often
   discoursed concerning the sorry figure I would cut in my tatters when we
   got to Liverpool, and the discredit it would bring on the American
   Merchant Service; for like all European seamen in American ships, Max
   prided himself not a little upon his naturalization as a Yankee, and if
   he could, would have been very glad to have passed himself off for a
   born native.
   But notwithstanding his grief at the prospect of my reflecting discredit
   upon his adopted country, he never offered to better my wardrobe, by
   loaning me any thing from his own well-stored chest. Like many other
   well-wishers, he contented him with sympathy. Max also betrayed some
   anxiety to know whether I knew how to dance; lest, when the ship's
   company went ashore, I should disgrace them by exposing my awkwardness
   in some of the sailor saloons. But I relieved his anxiety on that head.
   He was a great scold, and fault-finder, and often took me to task about
   my short-comings; but herein, he was not alone; for every one had a
   finger, or a thumb, and sometimes both hands, in my unfortunate pie.
   XVII. THE COOK AND STEWARD
   It was on a Sunday we made the Banks of Newfoundland; a drizzling,
   foggy, clammy Sunday. You could hardly see the water, owing to the mist
   and vapor upon it; and every thing was so flat and calm, I almost
   thought we must have somehow got back to New York, and were lying at the
   foot of Wall-street again in a rainy twilight. The decks were dripping
   with wet, so that in the dense fog, it seemed as if we were standing on
   the roof of a house in a shower.
   It was a most miserable Sunday; and several of the sailors had twinges
   of the rheumatism, and pulled on their monkey-jackets. As for Jackson,
   he was all the time rubbing his back and snarling like a dog.
