   
   I tried to recall all my pleasant, sunny Sundays ashore; and tried to
   imagine what they were doing at home; and whether our old family friend,
   Mr. Bridenstoke, would drop in, with his silver-mounted tasseled cane,
   between churches, as he used to; and whether he would inquire about
   myself.
   But it would not do. I could hardly realize that it was Sunday at all.
   Every thing went on pretty much the same as before. There was no church
   to go to; no place to take a walk in; no friend to call upon. I began to
   think it must be a sort of second Saturday; a foggy Saturday, when
   school-boys stay at home reading Robinson Crusoe.
   The only man who seemed to be taking his ease that day, was our black
   cook; who according to the invariable custom at sea, always went by the
   name of the doctor.
   And doctors, cooks certainly are, the very best medicos in the world;
   for what pestilent pills and potions of the Faculty are half so
   serviceable to man, and health-and-strength-giving, as roasted lamb and
   green peas, say, in spring; and roast beef and cranberry sauce in
   winter? Will a dose of calomel and jakp do you as much good? Will a
   bolus build up a fainting man? Is there any satisfaction in dining off a
   powder? But these doctors of the frying-pan sometimes loll men off by a
   surfeit; or give them the headache, at least. Well, what then? No
   matter. For if with their most goodly and ten times jolly I medicines,
   they now and then fill our nights with tribulations, and abridge our
   days, what of the social homicides perpetrated by the Faculty? And
   when you die by a pill-doctor's hands, it is never with a sweet relish
   in your mouth, as though you died by a frying-pan-doctor; but your last
   breath villainously savors of ipecac and rhubarb. Then, what charges
   they make for the abominable lunches they serve out so stingily! One of
   their bills for boluses would keep you in good dinners a twelve-month.
   Now, our doctor was a serious old fellow, much given to metaphysics, and
   used to talk about original sin. All that Sunday morning, he sat over
   his boiling pots, reading out of a book which was very much soiled and
   covered with grease spots: for he kept it stuck into a little leather
   strap, nailed to the keg where he kept the fat skimmed off the water in
   which the salt beef was cooked. I could hardly believe my eyes when I
   found this book was the Bible.
   I loved to peep in upon him, when he was thus absorbed; for his smoky
   studio or study was a strange-looking place enough; not more than five
   feet square, and about as many high; a mere box to hold the stove, the
   pipe of which stuck out of the roof.
   Within, it was hung round with pots and pans; and on one side was a
   little looking-glass, where he used to shave; and on a small shelf were
   his shaving tools, and a comb and brush. Fronting the stove, and very
   close to it, was a sort of narrow shelf, where he used to sit with his
   legs spread out very wide, to keep them from scorching; and there, with
   his book in one hand, and a pewter spoon in the other, he sat all that
   Sunday morning, stirring up his pots, and studying away at the same
   time; seldom taking his eye off the page. Reading must have been very
   hard work for him; for he muttered to himself quite loud as he read; and
   big drops of sweat would stand upon his brow, and roll off, till they
   hissed on the hot stove before him. But on the day I speak of, it was no
   wonder that he got perplexed, for he was reading a mysterious passage in
   the Book of Chronicles. Being aware that I knew how to read, he called
   me as I was passing his premises, and read the passage over, demanding
   an explanation. I told him it was a mystery that no one could explain;
   not even a parson. But this did not satisfy him, and I left him poring
   over it still.
   He must have been a member of one of those negro churches, which are to
   be found in New York. For when we lay at the wharf, I remembered that a
   committee of three reverend looking old darkies, who, besides their
   natural canonicals, wore quaker-cut black coats, and broad-brimmed black
   hats, and white neck-cloths; these colored gentlemen called upon him,
   and remained conversing with him at his cookhouse door for more than an
   hour; and before they went away they stepped inside, and the sliding
   doors were closed; and then we heard some one reading aloud and
   preaching; and after that a psalm was sting and a benediction given;
   when the door opened again, and the congregation came out in a great
   perspiration; owing, I suppose, to the chapel being so small, and there
   being only one seat besides the stove.
   But notwithstanding his religious studies and meditations, this old
   fellow used to use some bad language occasionally; particularly of cold,
   wet stormy mornings, when he had to get up before daylight and make his
   fire; with the sea breaking over the bows, and now and then dashing into
   his stove.
   So, under the circumstances, you could not blame him much, if he did rip
   a little, for it would have tried old Job's temper, to be set to work
   making a fire in the water.
   Without being at all neat about his premises, this old cook was very
   particular about them; he had a warm love and affection for his
   cook-house. In fair weather, he spread the skirt of an old jacket before
   the door, by way of a mat; and screwed a small ring-bolt into the door
   for a knocker; and wrote his name, "Mr. Thompson," over it, with a bit
   of red chalk.
   The men said he lived round the corner of Forecastle-square, opposite
   the Liberty Pole; because his cook-house was right behind the foremast,
   and very near the quarters occupied by themselves.
   Sailors have a great fancy for naming things that way on shipboard. When
   a man is hung at sea, which is always done from one of the lower
   yard-arms, they say he "takes a walk up Ladder-lane, and down
   Hemp-street."
   Mr. Thompson was a great crony of the steward's, who, being a handsome,
   dandy mulatto, that had once been a barber in West-Broadway, went by the
   name of Lavender. I have mentioned the gorgeous turban he wore when Mr.
   Jones and I visited the captain in the cabin. He never wore that turban
   at sea, though; but sported an uncommon head of frizzled hair, just like
   the large, round brush, used for washing windows, called a Pope's Head.
   He kept it well perfumed with Cologne water, of which he had a large
   supply, the relics of his West-Broadway stock in trade. His clothes,
   being mostly cast-off suits of the captain of a London liner, whom he
   had sailed with upon many previous voyages, were all in the height of
   the exploded fashions, and of every kind of color and cut. He had
   claret-colored suits, and snuff-colored suits, and red velvet vests, and
   buff and brimstone pantaloons, and several full suits of black, which,
   with his dark-colored face, made him look quite clerical; like a serious
   young colored gentleman of Barbados, about to take orders.
   He wore an uncommon large pursy ring on his forefinger, with something
   he called a real diamond in it; though it was very dim, and looked more
   like a glass eye than any thing else. He was very proud of his ring, and
   was always calling your attention to something, and pointing at it with
   his ornamented finger.
   He was a sentimental sort of a darky, and read the "Three Spaniards,"
   and "Charlotte Temple," and carried a lock of frizzled hair in his vest
   pocket, which he frequently volunteered to show to people, with his
   handkerchief to his eyes. Every fine evening, about sunset, these two,
   the cook and steward, used to sit on the little shelf in the cook-house,
   leaning up against each other like the Siamese twins, to keep from
   falling off, for the shelf was very short; and there they would stay
   till after dark, smoking their pipes, and gossiping about the events
   that had happened during the day in the cabin. And sometimes Mr.
   Thompson would take down his Bible, and read a chapter for the
   edification of Lavender, whom he knew to be a sad profligate and gay
   deceiver ashore; addicted to every youthful indiscretion. He would read
   over to him the story of Joseph and Potiphar's wife; and hold Joseph up
   to him as a young man of excellent principles, whom he ought to imitate,
   and not be guilty of his indiscretion any more. And Lavender would look
   serious, and say that he knew it was all true-he was a wicked youth, he
   knew it--he had broken a good many hearts, and many eyes were weeping for
   him even then, both in New York, and Liverpool, and London, and Havre.
   But how could he help it? He hadn't made his handsome face, and fine
   head of hair, and graceful figure. It was not he, but the others, that
   were to blame; for his bewitching person turned all heads and subdued
   all hearts, wherever he went. And then he would look very serious and
   penitent, and go up to the little glass, and pass his hands through his
   hair, and see how his whiskers were coming on.
