   
   XVIII. HE ENDEAVORS TO IMPROVE HIS MIND; AND TELLS OF ONE BLUNT AND HIS
   DREAM BOOK
   On the Sunday afternoon I spoke of, it was my watch below, and I thought
   I would spend it profitably, in improving my mind.
   My bunk was an upper one; and right over the head of it was a bull's-
   eye, or circular piece of thick ground glass, inserted into the deck
   to give light. It was a dull, dubious light, though; and I often found
   myself looking up anxiously to see whether the bull's-eye had not
   suddenly been put out; for whenever any one trod on it, in walking the
   deck, it was momentarily quenched; and what was still worse, sometimes a
   coil of rope would be thrown down on it, and stay there till I dressed
   myself and went up to remove it--a kind of interruption to my studies
   which annoyed me very much, when diligently occupied in reading.
   However, I was glad of any light at all, down in that gloomy hole, where
   we burrowed like rabbits in a warren; and it was the happiest time I
   had, when all my messmates were asleep, and I could lie on my back,
   during a forenoon watch below, and read in comparative quiet and
   seclusion.
   I had already read two books loaned to me by Max, to whose share they
   had fallen, in dividing the effects of the sailor who had jumped
   overboard. One was an account of Shipwrecks and Disasters at Sea, and
   the other was a large black volume, with Delirium Tremens in great gilt
   letters on the back. This proved to be a popular treatise on the subject
   of that disease; and I remembered seeing several copies in the sailor
   book-stalls about Fulton Market, and along South-street, in New York.
   But this Sunday I got out a book, from which I expected to reap great
   profit and sound instruction. It had been presented to me by Mr. Jones,
   who had quite a library, and took down this book from a top shelf, where
   it lay very dusty. When he gave it to me, he said, that although I was
   going to sea, I must not forget the importance of a good education; and
   that there was hardly any situation in life, however humble and
   depressed, or dark and gloomy, but one might find leisure in it to store
   his mind, and build himself up in the exact sciences. And he added, that
   though it did look rather unfavorable for my future prospects, to be
   going to sea as a common sailor so early in life; yet, it would no doubt
   turn out for my benefit in the end; and, at any rate, if I would only
   take good care of myself, would give me a sound constitution, if nothing
   more; and that was not to be undervalued, for how many very rich men
   would give all their bonds and mortgages for my boyish robustness.
   He added, that I need not expect any light, trivial work, that was
   merely entertaining, and nothing more; but here I would find
   entertainment and edification beautifully and harmoniously combined; and
   though, at first, I might possibly find it dull, yet, if I perused the
   book thoroughly, it would soon discover hidden charms and unforeseen
   attractions; besides teaching me, perhaps, the true way to retrieve the
   poverty of my family, and again make them all well-to-do in the world.
   Saying this, he handed it to me, and I blew the dust off, and looked at
   the back: "Smith's Wealth of Nations." This not satisfying me, I glanced
   at the title page, and found it was an "Enquiry into the Nature and
   Causes" of the alleged wealth of nations. But happening to look further
   down, I caught sight of "Aberdeen," where the book was printed; and
   thinking that any thing from Scotland, a foreign country, must prove
   some way or other pleasing to me, I thanked Mr. Jones very kindly, and
   promised to peruse the volume carefully.
   So, now, lying in my bunk, I began the book methodically, at page number
   one, resolved not to permit a few flying glimpses into it, taken
   previously, to prevent me from making regular approaches to the gist and
   body of the book, where I fancied lay something like the philosopher's
   stone, a secret talisman, which would transmute even pitch and tar to
   silver and gold.
   Pleasant, though vague visions of future opulence floated before me, as
   I commenced the first chapter, entitled "Of the causes of improvement in
   the productive power of labor." Dry as crackers and cheese, to be sure;
   and the chapter itself was not much better. But this was only getting
   initiated; and if I read on, the grand secret would be opened to me. So
   I read on and on, about "wages and profits of labor," without getting
   any profits myself for my pains in perusing it.
   Dryer and dryer; the very leaves smelt of saw-dust; till at last I drank
   some water, and went at it again. But soon I had to give it up for lost
   work; and thought that the old backgammon board, we had at home,
   lettered on the back, "The History of Rome" was quite as full of matter,
   and a great deal more entertaining. I wondered whether Mr. Jones had
   ever read the volume himself; and could not help remembering, that he
   had to get on a chair when he reached it down from its dusty shelf; that
   certainly looked suspicious.
   The best reading was on the fly leaves; and, on turning them over, I
   lighted upon some half effaced pencil-marks to the following effect:
   "Jonathan Jones, from his particular friend Daniel Dods, 1798." So it
   must have originally belonged to Mr. Jones' father; and I wondered
   whether he had ever read it; or, indeed, whether any body had ever read
   it, even the author himself; but then authors, they say, never read
   their own books; writing them, being enough in all conscience.
   At length I fell asleep, with the volume in my hand; and never slept so
   sound before; after that, I used to wrap my jacket round it, and use it
   for a pillow; for which purpose it answered very well; only I sometimes
   waked up feeling dull and stupid; but of course the book could not have
   been the cause of that.
   And now I am talking of books, I must tell of Jack Blunt the sailor, and
   his Dream Book.
   Jackson, who seemed to know every thing about all parts of the world,
   used to tell Jack in reproach, that he was an Irish Cockney. By which I
   understood, that he was an Irishman born, but had graduated in London,
   somewhere about Radcliffe Highway; but he had no sort of brogue that I
   could hear.
   He was a curious looking fellow, about twenty-five years old, as I
   should judge; but to look at his back, you would have taken him for a
   little old man. His arms and legs were very large, round, short, and
   stumpy; so that when he had on his great monkey-jacket, and sou'west cap
   flapping in his face, and his sea boots drawn up to his knees, he looked
   like a fat porpoise, standing on end. He had a round face, too, like a
   walrus; and with about the same expression, half human and half
   indescribable. He was, upon the whole, a good-natured fellow, and a
   little given to looking at sea-life romantically; singing songs about
   susceptible mermaids who fell in love with handsome young oyster boys
   and gallant fishermen. And he had a sad story about a man-of-war's-man
   who broke his heart at Portsmouth during the late war, and threw away
   his life recklessly at one of the quarter-deck cannonades, in the battle
   between the Guerriere and Constitution; and another incomprehensible
   story about a sort of fairy sea-queen, who used to be dunning a
   sea-captain all the time for his autograph to boil in some eel soup, for
   a spell against the scurvy.
   He believed in all kinds of witch-work and magic; and had some wild
   Irish words he used to mutter over during a calm for a fair wind.
   And he frequently related his interviews in Liverpool with a fortune-
   teller, an old negro woman by the name of De Squak, whose house was
   much frequented by sailors; and how she had two black cats, with
   remarkably green eyes, and nightcaps on their heads, solemnly seated on
   a claw-footed table near the old goblin; when she felt his pulse, to
   tell what was going to befall him.
   This Blunt had a large head of hair, very thick and bushy; but from some
   cause or other, it was rapidly turning gray; and in its transition state
   made him look as if he wore a shako of badger skin.
