   
   The phenomenon of gray hairs on a young head, had perplexed and
   confounded this Blunt to such a degree that he at last came to the
   conclusion it must be the result of the black art, wrought upon him by
   an enemy; and that enemy, he opined, was an old sailor landlord in
   Marseilles, whom he had once seriously offended, by knocking him down in
   a fray.
   So while in New York, finding his hair growing grayer and grayer, and
   all his friends, the ladies and others, laughing at him, and calling him
   an old man with one foot in the grave, he slipt out one night to an
   apothecary's, stated his case, and wanted to know what could be done for
   him.
   The apothecary immediately gave him a pint bottle of something he called
   "Trafalgar Oil for restoring the hair," price one dollar; and told him
   that after he had used that bottle, and it did not have the desired
   effect, he must try bottle No. 2, called "Balm of Paradise, or the
   Elixir of the Battle of Copenhagen." These high-sounding naval names
   delighted Blunt, and he had no doubt there must be virtue in them.
   I saw both bottles; and on one of them was an engraving, representing a
   young man, presumed to be gray-headed, standing in his night-dress in
   the middle of his chamber, and with closed eyes applying the Elixir to
   his head, with both hands; while on the bed adjacent stood a large
   bottle, conspicuously labeled, "Balm of Paradise." It seemed from the
   text, that this gray-headed young man was so smitten with his hair-oil,
   and was so thoroughly persuaded of its virtues, that he had got out of
   bed, even in his sleep; groped into his closet, seized the precious
   bottle, applied its contents, and then to bed again, getting up in the
   morning without knowing any thing about it. Which, indeed, was a most
   mysterious occurrence; and it was still more mysterious, how the
   engraver came to know an event, of which the actor himself was ignorant,
   and where there were no bystanders.
   Three times in the twenty-four hours, Blunt, while at sea, regularly
   rubbed in his liniments; but though the first bottle was soon exhausted
   by his copious applications, and the second half gone, he still stuck to
   it, that by the time we got to Liverpool, his exertions would be crowned
   with success. And he was not a little delighted, that this gradual
   change would be operating while we were at sea; so as not to expose him
   to the invidious observations of people ashore; on the same principle
   that dandies go into the country when they purpose raising whiskers. He
   would often ask his shipmates, whether they noticed any change yet; and
   if so, how much of a change? And to tell the truth, there was a very
   great change indeed; for the constant soaking of his hair with oil,
   operating in conjunction with the neglect of his toilet, and want of a
   brush and comb, had matted his locks together like a wild horse's mane,
   and imparted to it a blackish and extremely glossy hue. Besides his
   collection of hair-oils, Blunt had also provided himself with several
   boxes of pills, which he had purchased from a sailor doctor in New York,
   who by placards stuck on the posts along the wharves, advertised to
   remain standing at the northeast corner of Catharine Market, every
   Monday and Friday, between the hours of ten and twelve in the morning,
   to receive calls from patients, distribute medicines, and give advice
   gratis.
   Whether Blunt thought he had the dyspepsia or not, I can not say; but at
   breakfast, he always took three pills with his coffee; something as they
   do in Iowa, when the bilious fever prevails; where, at the boarding-
   houses, they put a vial of blue pills into the castor, along with the
   pepper and mustard, and next door to another vial of toothpicks. But
   they are very ill-bred and unpolished in the western country.
   Several times, too, Blunt treated himself to a flowing bumper of horse
   salts (Glauber salts); for like many other seamen, he never went to sea
   without a good supply of that luxury. He would frequently, also, take
   this medicine in a wet jacket, and then go on deck into a rain storm.
   But this is nothing to other sailors, who at sea will doctor themselves
   with calomel off Cape Horn, and still remain on duty. And in this
   connection, some really frightful stories might be told; but I forbear.
   For a landsman to take salts as this Blunt did, it would perhaps be the
   death of him; but at sea the salt air and the salt water prevent you
   from catching cold so readily as on land; and for my own part, on board
   this very ship, being so illy-provided with clothes, I frequently turned
   into my bunk soaking wet, and turned out again piping hot, and smoking
   like a roasted sirloin; and yet was never the worse for it; for then, I
   bore a charmed life of youth and health, and was dagger-proof to bodily
   ill.
   But it is time to tell of the Dream Book. Snugly hidden in one corner of
   his chest, Blunt had an extraordinary looking pamphlet, with a red
   cover, marked all over with astrological signs and ciphers, and
   purporting to be a full and complete treatise on the art of Divination;
   so that the most simple sailor could teach it to himself.
   It also purported to be the selfsame system, by aid of which Napoleon
   Bonaparte had risen in the world from being a corporal to an emperor.
   Hence it was entitled the Bonaparte Dream Book; for the magic of it lay
   in the interpretation of dreams, and their application to the foreseeing
   of future events; so that all preparatory measures might be taken
   beforehand; which would be exceedingly convenient, and satisfactory
   every way, if true. The problems were to be cast by means of figures, in
   some perplexed and difficult way, which, however, was facilitated by a
   set of tables in the end of the pamphlet, something like the Logarithm
   Tables at the end of Bowditch's Navigator.
   Now, Blunt revered, adored, and worshiped this Bonaparte Dream Book of
   his; and was fully persuaded that between those red covers, and in his
   own dreams, lay all the secrets of futurity. Every morning before taking
   his pills, and applying his hair-oils, he would steal out of his bunk
   before the rest of the watch were awake; take out his pamphlet, and a
   bit of chalk; and then straddling his chest, begin scratching his oily
   head to remember his fugitive dreams; marking down strokes on his
   chest-lid, as if he were casting up his daily accounts.
   Though often perplexed and lost in mazes concerning the cabalistic
   figures in the book, and the chapter of directions to beginners; for he
   could with difficulty read at all; yet, in the end, if not interrupted,
   he somehow managed to arrive at a conclusion satisfactory to him. So
   that, as he generally wore a good-humored expression, no doubt he must
   have thought, that all his future affairs were working together for the
   best.
   But one night he started us all up in a fright, by springing from his
   bunk, his eyes ready to start out of his head, and crying, in a husky
   voice--"Boys! boys! get the benches ready! Quick, quick!"
   "What benches?" growled Max-"What's the matter?"
   "Benches! benches!" screamed Blunt, without heeding him, "cut down the
   forests, bear a hand, boys; the Day of Judgment's coming!"
   But the next moment, he got quietly into his bunk, and laid still,
   muttering to himself, he had only been rambling in his sleep.
   I did not know exactly what he had meant by his benches; till, shortly
   after, I overheard two of the sailors debating, whether mankind would
   stand or sit at the Last Day.
