   
   XIX. A NARROW ESCAPE
   This Dream Book of Blunt's reminds me of a narrow escape we had, early
   one morning.
   It was the larboard watch's turn to remain below from midnight till four
   o'clock; and having turned in and slept, Blunt suddenly turned out again
   about three o'clock, with a wonderful dream in his head; which he was
   desirous of at once having interpreted.
   So he goes to his chest, gets out his tools, and falls to ciphering on
   the lid. When, all at once, a terrible cry was heard, that routed him
   and all the rest of us up, and sent the whole ship's company flying on
   deck in the dark. We did not know what it was; but somehow, among
   sailors at sea, they seem to know when real danger of any land is at
   hand, even in their sleep.
   When we got on deck, we saw the mate standing on the bowsprit, and
   crying out Luff! Luff! to some one in the dark water before the ship. In
   that direction, we could just see a light, and then, the great black
   hull of a strange vessel, that was coming down on us obliquely; and so
   near, that we heard the flap of her topsails as they shook in the wind,
   the trampling of feet on the deck, and the same cry of Luff! Luff! that
   our own mate, was raising.
   In a minute more, I caught my breath, as I heard a snap and a crash,
   like the fall of a tree, and suddenly, one of our flying-jib guys jerked
   out the bolt near the cat-head; and presently, we heard our jib-boom
   thumping against our bows.
   Meantime, the strange ship, scraping by us thus, shot off into the
   darkness, and we saw her no more. But she, also, must have been injured;
   for when it grew light, we found pieces of strange rigging mixed with
   ours. We repaired the damage, and replaced the broken spar with another
   jib-boom we had; for all ships carry spare spars against emergencies.
   The cause of this accident, which came near being the death of all on
   board, was nothing but the drowsiness of the look-out men on the
   forecastles of both ships. The sailor who had the look-out on our vessel
   was terribly reprimanded by the mate.
   No doubt, many ships that are never heard of after leaving port, meet
   their fate in this way; and it may be, that sometimes two vessels coming
   together, jib-boom-and-jib-boom, with a sudden shock in the middle watch
   of the night, mutually destroy each other; and like fighting elks, sink
   down into the ocean, with their antlers locked in death.
   While I was at Liverpool, a fine ship that lay near us in the docks,
   having got her cargo on board, went to sea, bound for India, with a good
   breeze; and all her crew felt sure of a prosperous voyage. But in about
   seven days after, she came back, a most distressing object to behold.
   All her starboard side was torn and splintered; her starboard anchor was
   gone; and a great part of the starboard bulwarks; while every one of the
   lower yard-arms had been broken, in the same direction; so that she now
   carried small and unsightly jury-yards.
   When I looked at this vessel, with the whole of one side thus shattered,
   but the other still in fine trim; and when I remembered her gay and
   gallant appearance, when she left the same harbor into which she now
   entered so forlorn; I could not help thinking of a young man I had known
   at home, who had left his cottage one morning in high spirits, and was
   brought back at noon with his right side paralyzed from head to foot.
   It seems that this vessel had been run against by a strange ship,
   crowding all sail before a fresh breeze; and the stranger had rushed
   past her starboard side, reducing her to the sad state in which she now
   was.
   Sailors can not be too wakeful and cautious, when keeping their night
   look-outs; though, as I well know, they too often suffer themselves to
   become negligent, and nod. And this is not so wonderful, after all; for
   though every seaman has heard of those accidents at sea; and many of
   them, perhaps, have been in ships that have suffered from them; yet,
   when you find yourself sailing along on the ocean at night, without
   having seen a sail for weeks and weeks, it is hard for you to realize
   that any are near. Then, if they are near, it seems almost incredible
   that on the broad, boundless sea, which washes Greenland at one end of
   the world, and the Falkland Islands at the other, that any one vessel
   upon such a vast highway, should come into close contact with another.
   But the likelihood of great calamities occurring, seldom obtrudes upon
   the minds of ignorant men, such as sailors generally are; for the things
   which wise people know, anticipate, and guard against, the ignorant can
   only become acquainted with, by meeting them face to face. And even when
   experience has taught them, the lesson only serves for that day;
   inasmuch as the foolish in prosperity are infidels to the possibility of
   adversity; they see the sun in heaven, and believe it to be far too
   bright ever to set. And even, as suddenly as the bravest and fleetest
   ships, while careering in pride of canvas over the sea, have been
   struck, as by lightning, and quenched out of sight; even so, do some
   lordly men, with all their plans and prospects gallantly trimmed to the
   fair, rushing breeze of life, and with no thought of death and disaster,
   suddenly encounter a shock unforeseen, and go down, foundering, into
   death.
   XX. IN A FOG HE IS SET TO WORK AS A BELL-TOLLER, AND BEHOLDS A HERD OF
   OCEAN-ELEPHANTS
   What is this that we sail through? What palpable obscure? What smoke and
   reek, as if the whole steaming world were revolving on its axis, as a
   spit?
