   
   It is a Newfoundland Fog; and we are yet crossing the Grand Banks, wrapt
   in a mist, that no London in the Novem-berest November ever equaled. The
   chronometer pronounced it noon; but do you call this midnight or midday?
   So dense is the fog, that though we have a fair wind, we shorten sail
   for fear of accidents; and not only that, but here am I, poor
   Wellingborough, mounted aloft on a sort of belfry, the top of the
   "Sampson-Post," a lofty tower of timber, so called; and tolling the
   ship's bell, as if for a funeral.
   This is intended to proclaim our approach, and warn all strangers from
   our track.
   Dreary sound! toll, toll, toll, through the dismal mist and fog.
   The bell is green with verdigris, and damp with dew; and the little cord
   attached to the clapper, by which I toll it, now and then slides through
   my fingers, slippery with wet. Here I am, in my slouched black hat, like
   the "bull that could pull," announcing the decease of the lamented
   Cock-Robin.
   A better device than the bell, however, was once pitched upon by an
   ingenious sea-captain, of whom I have heard. He had a litter of young
   porkers on board; and while sailing through the fog, he stationed men at
   both ends of the pen with long poles, wherewith they incessantly stirred
   up and irritated the porkers, who split the air with their squeals; and
   no doubt saved the ship, as the geese saved the Capitol.
   The most strange and unheard-of noises came out of the fog at times: a
   vast sound of sighing and sobbing. What could it be? This would be
   followed by a spout, and a gush, and a cascading commotion, as if some
   fountain had suddenly jetted out of the ocean.
   Seated on my Sampson-Post, I stared more and more, and suspended my duty
   as a sexton. But presently some one cried out--"There she blows! whales!
   whales close alongside!"
   A whale! Think of it! whales close to me, Wellingborough;--would my own
   brother believe it? I dropt the clapper as if it were red-hot, and
   rushed to the side; and there, dimly floating, lay four or five long,
   black snaky-looking shapes, only a few inches out of the water.
   Can these be whales? Monstrous whales, such as I had heard of? I thought
   they would look like mountains on the sea; hills and valleys of flesh!
   regular krakens, that made it high tide, and inundated continents, when
   they descended to feed!
   It was a bitter disappointment, from which I was long in recovering. I
   lost all respect for whales; and began to be a little dubious about the
   story of Jonah; for how could Jonah reside in such an insignificant
   tenement; how could he have had elbow-room there? But perhaps, thought
   I, the whale which according to Rabbinical traditions was a female one,
   might have expanded to receive him like an anaconda, when it swallows an
   elk and leaves the antlers sticking out of its mouth.
   Nevertheless, from that day, whales greatly fell in my estimation.
   But it is always thus. If you read of St. Peter's, they say, and then go
   and visit it, ten to one, you account it a dwarf compared to your
   high-raised ideal. And, doubtless, Jonah himself must have been
   disappointed when he looked up to the domed midriff surmounting the
   whale's belly, and surveyed the ribbed pillars around him. A pretty
   large belly, to be sure, thought he, but not so big as it might have
   been.
   On the next day, the fog lifted; and by noon, we found ourselves sailing
   through fleets of fishermen at anchor. They were very small craft; and
   when I beheld them, I perceived the force of that sailor saying,
   intended to illustrate restricted quarters, or being on the limits. It
   is like a fisherman's walk, say they, three steps and overboard.
   Lying right in the track of the multitudinous ships crossing the ocean
   between England and America, these little vessels are sometimes run
   down, and obliterated from the face of the waters; the cry of the
   sailors ceasing with the last whirl of the whirlpool that closes over
   their craft. Their sad fate is frequently the result of their own
   remissness in keeping a good look-out by day, and not having their lamps
   trimmed, like the wise virgins, by night.
   As I shall not make mention of the Grand Banks on our homeward-bound
   passage, I may as well here relate, that on our return, we approached
   them in the night; and by way of making sure of our whereabouts, the
   deep-sea-lead was heaved. The line attached is generally upward of three
   hundred fathoms in length; and the lead itself, weighing some forty or
   fifty pounds, has a hole in the lower end, in which, previous to
   sounding, some tallow is thrust, that it may bring up the soil at the
   bottom, for the captain to inspect. This is called "arming" the lead.
   We "hove" our deep-sea-line by night, and the operation was very
   interesting, at least to me. In the first place, the vessel's heading
   was stopt; then, coiled away in a tub, like a whale-rope, the line was
   placed toward the after part of the quarter-deck; and one of the sailors
   carried the lead outside of the ship, away along to the end of the
   jib-boom, and at the word of command, far ahead and overboard it went,
   with a plunge; scraping by the side, till it came to the stern, when the
   line ran out of the tub like light.
   When we came to haul it up, I was astonished at the force necessary to
   perform the work. The whole watch pulled at the line, which was rove
   through a block in the mizzen-rigging, as if we were hauling up a fat
   porpoise. When the lead came in sight, I was all eagerness to examine
   the tallow, and get a peep at a specimen of the bottom of the sea; but
   the sailors did not seem to be much interested by it, calling me a fool
   for wanting to preserve a few grains of the sand.
   I had almost forgotten to make mention of the Gulf Stream, in which we
   found ourselves previous to crossing the Banks. The fact, of our being
   in it was proved by the captain in person, who superintended the drawing
   of a bucket of salt water, in which he dipped his thermometer. In the
   absence of the Gulf-weed, this is the general test; for the temperature
   of this current is eight degrees higher than that of the ocean, and the
   temperature of the ocean is twenty degrees higher than that of the Grand
   Banks. And it is to this remarkable difference of temperature, for which
   there can be no equilibrium, that many seamen impute the fogs on the
   coast of Nova Scotia and Newfoundland; but why there should always be
   such ugly weather in the Gulf, is something that I do not know has ever
   been accounted for.
   It is curious to dip one's finger in a bucket full of the Gulf Stream,
   and find it so warm; as if the Gulf of Mexico, from whence this current
   comes, were a great caldron or boiler, on purpose to keep warm the North
   Atlantic, which is traversed by it for a distance of two thousand miles,
   as some large halls in winter are by hot air tubes. Its mean breadth
   being about two hundred leagues, it comprises an area larger than that
   of the whole Mediterranean, and may be deemed a sort of Mississippi of
   hot water flowing through the ocean; off the coast of Florida, running
   at the rate of one mile and a half an hour.
