   
   XXI. A WHALEMAN AND A MAN-OF-WAR'S-MAN
   The sight of the whales mentioned in the preceding chapter was the
   bringing out of Larry, one of our crew, who hitherto had been quite
   silent and reserved, as if from some conscious inferiority, though he
   had shipped as an ordinary seaman, and, for aught I could see, performed
   his duty very well.
   When the men fell into a dispute concerning what kind of whales they
   were which we saw, Larry stood by attentively, and after garnering in
   their ignorance, all at once broke out, and astonished every body by his
   intimate acquaintance with the monsters.
   "They ar'n't sperm whales," said Larry, "their spouts ar'n't bushy
   enough; they ar'n't Sulphur-bottoms, or they wouldn't stay up so long;
   they ar'n't Hump-backs, for they ar'n't got any humps; they ar'n't
   Fin-backs, for you won't catch a Finback so near a ship; they ar'n't
   Greenland whales, for we ar'n't off the coast of Greenland; and they
   ar'n't right whales, for it wouldn't be right to say so. I tell ye, men,
   them's Crinkum-crankum whales."
   "And what are them?" said a sailor.
   "Why, them is whales that can't be cotched."
   Now, as it turned out that this Larry had been bred to the sea in a
   whaler, and had sailed out of Nantucket many times; no one but Jackson
   ventured to dispute his opinion; and even Jackson did not press him very
   hard. And ever after, Larry's judgment was relied upon concerning all
   strange fish that happened to float by us during the voyage; for
   whalemen are far more familiar with the wonders of the deep than any
   other class of seaman.
   This was Larry's first voyage in the merchant service, and that was the
   reason why, hitherto, he had been so reserved; since he well knew that
   merchant seamen generally affect a certain superiority to "blubber-
   boilers," as they contemptuously style those who hunt the leviathan.
   But Larry turned out to be such an inoffensive fellow, and so well
   understood his business aboard ship, and was so ready to jump to an
   order, that he was exempted from the taunts which he might otherwise
   have encountered.
   He was a somewhat singular man, who wore his hat slanting forward over
   the bridge of his nose, with his eyes cast down, and seemed always
   examining your boots, when speaking to you. I loved to hear him talk
   about the wild places in the Indian Ocean, and on the coast of
   Madagascar, where he had frequently touched during his whaling voyages.
   And this familiarity with the life of nature led by the people in that
   remote part of the world, had furnished Larry with a sentimental
   distaste for civilized society. When opportunity offered, he never
   omitted extolling the delights of the free and easy Indian Ocean.
   "Why," said Larry, talking through his nose, as usual, "in Madagasky
   there, they don't wear any togs at all, nothing but a bowline round the
   midships; they don't have no dinners, but keeps a dinin' all day off fat
   pigs and dogs; they don't go to bed any where, but keeps a noddin' all
   the time; and they gets drunk, too, from some first rate arrack they
   make from cocoa-nuts; and smokes plenty of 'baccy, too, I tell ye. Fine
   country, that! Blast Ameriky, I say!"
   To tell the truth, this Larry dealt in some illiberal insinuations
   against civilization.
   "And what's the use of bein' snivelized!" said he to me one night during
   our watch on deck; "snivelized chaps only learns the way to take on
   'bout life, and snivel. You don't see any Methodist chaps feelin'
   dreadful about their souls; you don't see any darned beggars and pesky
   constables in Madagasky, I tell ye; and none o' them kings there gets
   their big toes pinched by the gout. Blast Ameriky, I say."
   Indeed, this Larry was rather cutting in his innuendoes.
   "Are you now, Buttons, any better off for bein' snivelized?" coming
   close up to me and eying the wreck of my gaff-topsail-boots very
   steadfastly. "No; you ar'n't a bit--but you're a good deal worse for it,
   Buttons. I tell ye, ye wouldn't have been to sea here, leadin' this
   dog's life, if you hadn't been snivelized--that's the cause why, now.
   Snivelization has been the ruin on ye; and it's spiled me complete; I
   might have been a great man in Madagasky; it's too darned bad! Blast
   Ameriky, I say." And in bitter grief at the social blight upon his whole
   past, present, and future, Larry turned away, pulling his hat still
   lower down over the bridge of his nose.
   In strong contrast to Larry, was a young man-of-war's man we had, who
   went by the name of "Gun-Deck," from his always talking of sailor life
   in the navy. He was a little fellow with a small face and a prodigious
   mop of brown hair; who always dressed in man-of-war style, with a wide,
   braided collar to his frock, and Turkish trowsers. But he particularly
   prided himself upon his feet, which were quite small; and when we washed
   down decks of a morning, never mind how chilly it might be, he always
   took off his boots, and went paddling about like a duck, turning out his
   pretty toes to show his charming feet.
   He had served in the armed steamers during the Seminole War in Florida,
   and had a good deal to say about sailing up the rivers there, through
   the everglades, and popping off Indians on the banks. I remember his
   telling a story about a party being discovered at quite a distance from
   them; but one of the savages was made very conspicuous by a pewter
   plate, which he wore round his neck, and which glittered in the sun.
   This plate proved his death; for, according to Gun-Deck, he himself shot
   it through the middle, and the ball entered the wearer's heart. It was a
   rat-killing war, he said.
   Gun-Deck had touched at Cadiz: had been to Gibraltar; and ashore at
   Marseilles. He had sunned himself in the Bay of Naples: eaten figs and
   oranges in Messina; and cheerfully lost one of his hearts at Malta,
   among the ladies there. And about all these things, he talked like a
   romantic man-of-war's man, who had seen the civilized world, and loved
   it; found it good, and a comfortable place to live in. So he and Larry
   never could agree in their respective views of civilization, and of
   savagery, of the Mediterranean and Madagasky.
