   
   "And did you get that out of your silly Dream Book, you Greek?" howled
   Jackson through a cough. "Don't talk of heaven to me--it's a lie--I know
   it--and they are all fools that believe in it. Do you think, you Greek,
   that there's any heaven for you? Will they let you in there, with that
   tarry hand, and that oily head of hair? Avast! when some shark gulps you
   down his hatchway one of these days, you'll find, that by dying, you'll
   only go from one gale of wind to another; mind that, you Irish cockney!
   Yes, you'll be bolted down like one of your own pills: and I should like
   to see the whole ship swallowed down in the Norway maelstrom, like a box
   on 'em. That would be a dose of salts for ye!" And so saying, he went
   off, holding his hands to his chest, and coughing, as if his last hour
   was come.
   Every day this Jackson seemed to grow worse and worse, both in body and
   mind. He seldom spoke, but to contradict, deride, or curse; and all the
   time, though his face grew thinner and thinner, his eyes seemed to
   kindle more and more, as if he were going to die out at last, and leave
   them burning like tapers before a corpse.
   Though he had never attended churches, and knew nothing about
   Christianity; no more than a Malay pirate; and though he could not read
   a word, yet he was spontaneously an atheist and an infidel; and during
   the long night watches, would enter into arguments, to prove that there
   was nothing to be believed; nothing to be loved, and nothing worth
   living for; but every thing to be hated, in the wide world. He was a
   horrid desperado; and like a wild Indian, whom he resembled in his tawny
   skin and high cheek bones, he seemed to run amuck at heaven and earth.
   He was a Cain afloat; branded on his yellow brow with some inscrutable
   curse; and going about corrupting and searing every heart that beat near
   him.
   But there seemed even more woe than wickedness about the man; and his
   wickedness seemed to spring from his woe; and for all his hideousness,
   there was that in his eye at times, that was ineffably pitiable and
   touching; and though there were moments when I almost hated this
   Jackson, yet I have pitied no man as I have pitied him.
   XXIII. AN UNACCOUNTABLE CABIN-PASSENGER, AND A MYSTERIOUS YOUNG LADY
   As yet, I have said nothing special about the passengers we carried out.
   But before making what little mention I shall of them, you must know
   that the Highlander was not a Liverpool liner, or packet-ship, plying in
   connection with a sisterhood of packets, at stated intervals, between
   the two ports. No: she was only what is called a regular trader to
   Liverpool; sailing upon no fixed days, and acting very much as she
   pleased, being bound by no obligations of any kind: though in all her
   voyages, ever having New York or Liverpool for her destination. Merchant
   vessels which are neither liners nor regular traders, among sailors come
   under the general head of transient ships; which implies that they are
   here to-day, and somewhere else to-morrow, like Mullins's dog.
   But I had no reason to regret that the Highlander was not a liner; for
   aboard of those liners, from all I could gather from those who had
   sailed in them, the crew have terrible hard work, owing to their
   carrying such a press of sail, in order to make as rapid passages as
   possible, and sustain the ship's reputation for speed. Hence it is, that
   although they are the very best of sea-going craft, and built in the
   best possible manner, and with the very best materials, yet, a few years
   of scudding before the wind, as they do, seriously impairs their
   constitutions--like robust young men, who live too fast in their teens
   --and they are soon sold out for a song; generally to the people of
   Nantucket, New Bedford, and Sag Harbor, who repair and fit them out for
   the whaling business.
   Thus, the ship that once carried over gay parties of ladies and
   gentlemen, as tourists, to Liverpool or London, now carries a crew of
   harpooners round Cape Horn into the Pacific. And the mahogany and
   bird's-eye maple cabin, which once held rosewood card-tables and
   brilliant coffee-urns, and in which many a bottle of champagne, and many
   a bright eye sparkled, now accommodates a bluff Quaker captain from
   Martha's Vineyard; who, perhaps, while lying with his ship in the Bay of
   Islands, in New Zealand, entertains a party of naked chiefs and savages
   at dinner, in place of the packet-captain doing the honors to the
   literati, theatrical stars, foreign princes, and gentlemen of leisure
   and fortune, who generally talked gossip, politics, and nonsense across
   the table, in transatlantic trips. The broad quarter-deck, too, where
   these gentry promenaded, is now often choked up by the enormous head of
   the sperm-whale, and vast masses of unctuous blubber; and every where
   reeks with oil during the prosecution of the fishery. Sic transit gloria
   mundi! Thus departs the pride and glory of packet-ships! It is like a
   broken down importer of French silks embarking in the soap-boning
   business.
   So, not being a liner, the Highlander of course did not have very ample
   accommodations for cabin passengers. I believe there were not more than
   five or six state-rooms, with two or three berths in each. At any rate,
   on this particular voyage she only carried out one regular
   cabin-passenger; that is, a person previously unacquainted with the
   captain, who paid his fare down, and came on board soberly, and in a
   business-like manner with his baggage.
   He was an extremely little man, that solitary cabin-passenger--the
   passenger who came on board in a business-like manner with his baggage;
   never spoke to any one, and the captain seldom spoke to him.
   Perhaps he was a deputy from the Deaf and Dumb Institution in New York,
   going over to London to address the public in pantomime at Exeter Hall
   concerning the signs of the times.
   He was always in a brown study; sometimes sitting on the quarter-deck
   with arms folded, and head hanging upon his chest. Then he would rise,
   and gaze out to windward, as if he had suddenly discovered a friend. But
   looking disappointed, would retire slowly into his state-room, where you
   could see him through the little window, in an irregular sitting
   position, with the back part of him inserted into his berth, and his
   head, arms, and legs hanging out, buried in profound meditation, with
   his fore-finger aside of his nose. He never was seen reading; never took
   a hand at cards; never smoked; never drank wine; never conversed; and
   never staid to the dessert at dinner-time.
   He seemed the true microcosm, or little world to himself: standing in no
   need of levying contributions upon the surrounding universe. Conjecture
   was lost in speculating as to who he was, and what was his business. The
   sailors, who are always curious with regard to such matters, and
   criticise cabin-passengers more than cabin-passengers are perhaps aware
   at the time, completely exhausted themselves in suppositions, some of
   which are characteristically curious.
   One of the crew said he was a mysterious bearer of secret dispatches to
   the English court; others opined that he was a traveling surgeon and
   bonesetter, but for what reason they thought so, I never could learn;
   and others declared that he must either be an unprincipled bigamist,
   flying from his last wife and several small children; or a scoundrelly
   forger, bank-robber, or general burglar, who was returning to his
   beloved country with his ill-gotten booty. One observing sailor was of
   opinion that he was an English murderer, overwhelmed with speechless
   remorse, and returning home to make a full confession and be hanged.
   But it was a little singular, that among all their sage and sometimes
   confident opinings, not one charitable one was made; no! they were all
   sadly to the prejudice of his moral and religious character. But this is
   the way all the world over. Miserable man! could you have had an inkling
   of what they thought of you, I know not what you would have done.
   However, not knowing any thing about these surmisings and suspicions,
   this mysterious cabin-passenger went on his way, calm, cool, and
   collected; never troubled any body, and nobody troubled him. Sometimes,
   of a moonlight night he glided about the deck, like the ghost of a
   hospital attendant; flitting from mast to mast; now hovering round the
   skylight, now vibrating in the vicinity of the binnacle. Blunt, the
   Dream Book tar, swore he was a magician; and took an extra dose of
   salts, by way of precaution against his spells.
