   
   Next day, my brother's friend, whom I choose to call Mr. Jones,
   accompanied me down to the docks among the shipping, in order to get
   me a place. After a good deal of searching we lighted upon a ship for
   Liverpool, and found the captain in the cabin; which was a very handsome
   one, lined with mahogany and maple; and the steward, an elegant looking
   mulatto in a gorgeous turban, was setting out on a sort of sideboard
   some dinner service which looked like silver, but it was only Britannia
   ware highly polished.
   As soon as I clapped my eye on the captain, I thought myself he was
   just the captain to suit me. He was a fine looking man, about forty,
   splendidly dressed, with very black whiskers, and very white teeth, and
   what I took to be a free, frank look out of a large hazel eye. I liked
   him amazingly. He was promenading up and down the cabin, humming some
   brisk air to himself when we entered.
   "Good morning, sir," said my friend.
   "Good morning, good morning, sir," said the captain. "Steward, chairs
   for the gentlemen."
   "Oh! never mind, sir," said Mr. Jones, rather taken aback by his extreme
   civility. "I merely called to see whether you want a fine young lad to
   go to sea with you. Here he is; he has long wanted to be a sailor; and
   his friends have at last concluded to let him go for one voyage, and see
   how he likes it."
   "Ah! indeed!" said the captain, blandly, and looking where I stood.
   "He's a fine fellow; I like him. So you want to be a sailor, my boy, do
   you?" added he, affectionately patting my head. "It's a hard We, though;
   a hard life."
   But when I looked round at his comfortable, and almost luxurious cabin,
   and then at his handsome care-free face, I thought he was only trying to
   frighten me, and I answered, "Well, sir, I am ready to try it."
   "I hope he's a country lad, sir," said the captain to my friend, "these
   city boys are sometimes hard cases."
   "Oh! yes, he's from the country," was the reply, "and of a highly
   respectable family; his great-uncle died a Senator."
   "But his great-uncle don't want to go to sea too?" said the captain,
   looking funny.
   "Oh! no, oh, no!--Ha! ha!"
   "Ha! ha!" echoed the captain.
   A fine funny gentleman, thought I, not much fancying, however, his
   levity concerning my great-uncle, he'll be cracking his jokes the whole
   voyage; and so I afterward said to one of the riggers on board; but he
   bade me look out, that he did not crack my head.
   "Well, my lad," said the captain, "I suppose you know we haven't any
   pastures and cows on board; you can't get any milk at sea, you know."
   "Oh! I know all about that, sir; my father has crossed the ocean, if I
   haven't."
   "Yes," cried my friend, "his father, a gentleman of one of the first
   families in America, crossed the Atlantic several times on important
   business."
   "Embassador extraordinary?" said the captain, looking funny again.
   "Oh! no, he was a wealthy merchant."
   "Ah! indeed;" said the captain, looking grave and bland again, "then
   this fine lad is the son of a gentleman?"
   "Certainly," said my friend, "and he's only going to sea for the humor
   of it; they want to send him on his travels with a tutor, but he will go
   to sea as a sailor."
