   
   When we were but a few days from port, a comical adventure befell this
   cabin-passenger. There is an old custom, still in vogue among some
   merchant sailors, of tying fast in the rigging any lubberly landsman of
   a passenger who may be detected taking excursions aloft, however
   moderate the flight of the awkward fowl. This is called "making a spread
   eagle" of the man; and before he is liberated, a promise is exacted,
   that before arriving in port, he shall furnish the ship's company with
   money enough for a treat all round.
   Now this being one of the perquisites of sailors, they are always on the
   keen look-out for an opportunity of levying such contributions upon
   incautious strangers; though they never attempt it in presence of the
   captain; as for the mates, they purposely avert their eyes, and are
   earnestly engaged about something else, whenever they get an inkling of
   this proceeding going on. But, with only one poor fellow of a
   cabin-passenger on board of the Highlander, and he such a quiet,
   unobtrusive, unadventurous wight, there seemed little chance for levying
   contributions.
   One remarkably pleasant morning, however, what should be seen, half way
   up the mizzen rigging, but the figure of our cabin-passenger, holding on
   with might and main by all four limbs, and with his head fearfully
   turned round, gazing off to the horizon. He looked as if he had the
   nightmare; and in some sudden and unaccountable fit of insanity, he must
   have been impelled to the taking up of that perilous position.
   "Good heavens!" said the mate, who was a bit of a wag, "you will surely
   fall, sir! Steward, spread a mattress on deck, under the gentleman!"
   But no sooner was our Greenland sailor's attention called to the sight,
   than snatching up some rope-yarn, he ran softly up behind the passenger,
   and without speaking a word, began binding him hand and foot. The
   stranger was more dumb than ever with amazement; at last violently
   remonstrated; but in vain; for as his tearfulness of falling made him
   keep his hands glued to the ropes, and so prevented him from any
   effectual resistance, he was soon made a handsome spread-eagle of, to
   the great satisfaction of the crew.
   It was now discovered for the first, that this singular passenger
   stammered and stuttered very badly, which, perhaps, was the cause of his
   reservedness.
   "Wha-wha-what i-i-is this f-f-for?"
   "Spread-eagle, sir," said the Greenlander, thinking that those few words
   would at once make the matter plain.
   "Wha-wha-what that me-me-mean?"
   "Treats all round, sir," said the Greenlander, wondering at the other's
   obtusity, who, however, had never so much as heard of the thing before.
   At last, upon his reluctant acquiescence in the demands of the sailor,
   and handing him two half-crown pieces, the unfortunate passenger was
   suffered to descend.
   The last I ever saw of this man was his getting into a cab at Prince's
   Dock Gates in Liverpool, and driving off alone to parts unknown. He had
   nothing but a valise with him, and an umbrella; but his pockets looked
   stuffed out; perhaps he used them for carpet-bags.
   I must now give some account of another and still more mysterious,
   though very different, sort of an occupant of the cabin, of whom I have
   previously hinted. What say you to a charming young girl?--just the girl
   to sing the Dashing White Sergeant; a martial, military-looking girl;
   her father must have been a general. Her hair was auburn; her eyes were
   blue; her cheeks were white and red; and Captain Riga was her most
   devoted.
   To the curious questions of the sailors concerning who she was, the
   steward used to answer, that she was the daughter of one of the
   Liverpool dock-masters, who, for the benefit of her health and the
   improvement of her mind, had sent her out to America in the Highlander,
   under the captain's charge, who was his particular friend; and that now
   the young lady was returning home from her tour.
   And truly the captain proved an attentive father to her, and often
   promenaded with her hanging on his arm, past the forlorn bearer of
   secret dispatches, who would look up now and then out of his reveries,
   and cast a furtive glance of wonder, as if he thought the captain was
   audacious.
   Considering his beautiful ward, I thought the captain behaved
   ungallantly, to say the least, in availing himself of the opportunity of
   her charming society, to wear out his remaining old clothes; for no
   gentleman ever pretends to save his best coat when a lady is in the
   case; indeed, he generally thirsts for a chance to abase it, by
   converting it into a pontoon over a puddle, like Sir Walter Raleigh,
   that the ladies may not soil the soles of their dainty slippers. But
   this Captain Riga was no Raleigh, and hardly any sort of a true
   gentleman whatever, as I have formerly declared. Yet, perhaps, he might
   have worn his old clothes in this instance, for the express purpose of
   proving, by his disdain for the toilet, that he was nothing but the
   young lady's guardian; for many guardians do not care one fig how shabby
   they look.
   But for all this, the passage out was one long paternal sort of a shabby
   flirtation between this hoydenish nymph and the ill-dressed captain. And
   surely, if her good mother, were she living, could have seen this young
   lady, she would have given her an endless lecture for her conduct, and a
   copy of Mrs. Ellis's Daughters of England to read and digest. I shall
   say no more of this anonymous nymph; only, that when we arrived at
   Liverpool, she issued from her cabin in a richly embroidered silk dress,
   and lace hat and veil, and a sort of Chinese umbrella or parasol, which
   one of the sailors declared "spandangalous;" and the captain followed
   after in his best broadcloth and beaver, with a gold-headed cane; and
   away they went in a carriage, and that was the last of her; I hope she
   is well and happy now; but I have some misgivings.
   It now remains to speak of the steerage passengers. There were not more
   than twenty or thirty of them, mostly mechanics, returning home, after a
   prosperous stay in America, to escort their wives and families back.
   These were the only occupants of the steerage that I ever knew of; till
   early one morning, in the gray dawn, when we made Cape Clear, the south
   point of Ireland, the apparition of a tall Irishman, in a shabby shirt
   of bed-ticking, emerged from the fore hatchway, and stood leaning on the
   rail, looking landward with a fixed, reminiscent expression, and
   diligently scratching its back with both hands. We all started at the
   sight, for no one had ever seen the apparition before; and when we
   remembered that it must have been burrowing all the passage down in its
   bunk, the only probable reason of its so manipulating its back became
   shockingly obvious.
   I had almost forgotten another passenger of ours, a little boy not four
   feet high, an English lad, who, when we were about forty-eight hours
   from New York, suddenly appeared on deck, asking for something to eat.
   It seems he was the son of a carpenter, a widower, with this only child,
   who had gone out to America in the Highlander some six months previous,
   where he fell to drinking, and soon died, leaving the boy a friendless
   orphan in a foreign land.
