   
   For several weeks the boy wandered about the wharves, picking up a
   precarious livelihood by sucking molasses out of the casks discharged
   from West India ships, and occasionally regaling himself upon stray
   oranges and lemons found floating in the docks. He passed his nights
   sometimes in a stall in the markets, sometimes in an empty hogshead on
   the piers, sometimes in a doorway, and once in the watchhouse, from
   which he escaped the next morning, running as he told me, right between
   the doorkeeper's legs, when he was taking another vagrant to task for
   repeatedly throwing himself upon the public charities.
   At last, while straying along the docks, he chanced to catch sight of
   the Highlander, and immediately recognized her as the very ship which
   brought him and his father out from England. He at once resolved to
   return in her; and, accosting the captain, stated his case, and begged a
   passage. The captain refused to give it; but, nothing daunted, the
   heroic little fellow resolved to conceal himself on board previous to
   the ship's sailing; which he did, stowing himself away in the
   between-decks; and moreover, as he told us, in a narrow space between
   two large casks of water, from which he now and then thrust out his head
   for air. And once a steerage passenger rose in the night and poked in
   and rattled about a stick where he was, thinking him an uncommon large
   rat, who was after stealing a passage across the Atlantic. There are
   plenty of passengers of that kind continually plying between Liverpool
   and New York.
   As soon as he divulged the fact of his being on board, which he took
   care should not happen till he thought the ship must be out of sight of
   land; the captain had him called aft, and after giving him a thorough
   shaking, and threatening to toss her overboard as a tit-bit for John
   Shark, he told the mate to send him forward among the sailors, and let
   him live there. The sailors received him with open arms; but before
   caressing him much, they gave him a thorough washing in the
   lee-scuppers, when he turned out to be quite a handsome lad, though thin
   and pale with the hardships he had suffered. However, by good nursing
   and plenty to eat, he soon improved and grew fat; and before many days
   was as fine a looking little fellow, as you might pick out of Queen
   Victoria's nursery. The sailors took the warmest interest in him. One
   made him a little hat with a long ribbon; another a little jacket; a
   third a comical little pair of man-of-war's-man's trowsers; so that in
   the end, he looked like a juvenile boatswain's mate. Then the cook
   furnished him with a little tin pot and pan; and the steward made him a
   present of a pewter tea-spoon; and a steerage passenger gave him a jack
   knife. And thus provided, he used to sit at meal times half way up on
   the forecastle ladder, making a great racket with his pot and pan, and
   merry as a cricket. He was an uncommonly fine, cheerful, clever, arch
   little fellow, only six years old, and it was a thousand pities that he
   should be abandoned, as he was. Who can say, whether he is fated to be a
   convict in New South Wales, or a member of Parliament for Liverpool?
   When we got to that port, by the way, a purse was made up for him; the
   captain, officers, and the mysterious cabin passenger contributing their
   best wishes, and the sailors and poor steerage passengers something like
   fifteen dollars in cash and tobacco. But I had almost forgot to add that
   the daughter of the dock-master gave him a fine lace pocket-handkerchief
   and a card-case to remember her by; very valuable, but somewhat
   inappropriate presents. Thus supplied, the little hero went ashore by
   himself; and I lost sight of him in the vast crowds thronging the docks
   of Liverpool.
   I must here mention, as some relief to the impression which Jackson's
   character must have made upon the reader, that in several ways he at
   first befriended this boy; but the boy always shrunk from him; till, at
   last, stung by his conduct, Jackson spoke to him no more; and seemed to
   hate him, harmless as he was, along with all the rest of the world.
   As for the Lancashire lad, he was a stupid sort of fellow, as I have
   before hinted. So, little interest was taken in him, that he was
   permitted to go ashore at last, without a good-by from any person but
   one.
   XXIV. HE BEGINS TO HOP ABOUT IN THE RIGGING LIKE A SAINT JAGO's MONKEY
   But we have not got to Liverpool yet; though, as there is little more to
   be said concerning the passage out, the Highlander may as well make sail
   and get there as soon as possible. The brief interval will perhaps be
   profitably employed in relating what progress I made in learning the
   duties of a sailor.
   After my heroic feat in loosing the main-skysail, the mate entertained
   good hopes of my becoming a rare mariner. In the fullness of his heart,
   he ordered me to turn over the superintendence of the chicken-coop to
   the Lancashire boy; which I did, very willingly. After that, I took care
   to show the utmost alacrity in running aloft, which by this time became
   mere fun for me; and nothing delighted me more than to sit on one of the
   topsail-yards, for hours together, helping Max or the Green-lander as
   they worked at the rigging.
   At sea, the sailors are continually engaged in "parcelling," "serving,"
   and in a thousand ways ornamenting and repairing the numberless shrouds
   and stays; mending sails, or turning one side of the deck into a
   rope-walk, where they manufacture a clumsy sort of twine, called
   spun-yarn. This is spun with a winch; and many an hour the Lancashire
   boy had to play the part of an engine, and contribute the motive power.
   For material, they use odds and ends of old rigging called "junk," the
   yarns of which are picked to pieces, and then twisted into new
   combinations, something as most books are manufactured. This "junk" is
   bought at the junk shops along the wharves; outlandish looking dens,
   generally subterranean, full of old iron, old shrouds, spars, rusty
   blocks, and superannuated tackles; and kept by villainous looking old
   men, in tarred trowsers, and with yellow beards like oakum. They look
   like wreckers; and the scattered goods they expose for sale,
   involuntarily remind one of the sea-beach, covered with keels and
   cordage, swept ashore in a gale.
   Yes, I was now as nimble as a monkey in the rigging, and at the cry of
   "tumble up there, my hearties, and take in sail," I was among the first
   ground-and-lofty tumblers, that sprang aloft at the word.
   But the first time we reefed top-sails of a dark night, and I found
   myself hanging over the yard with eleven others, the ship plunging and
   rearing like a mad horse, till I felt like being jerked off the spar;
   then, indeed, I thought of a feather-bed at home, and hung on with tooth
   and nail; with no chance for snoring. But a few repetitions, soon made
   me used to it; and before long, I tied my reef-point as quickly and
   expertly as the best of them; never making what they call a "granny-
   knot," and slipt down on deck by the bare stays, instead of the shrouds.
   It is surprising, how soon a boy overcomes his timidity about going
   aloft. For my own part, my nerves became as steady as the earth's
   diameter, and I felt as fearless on the royal yard, as Sam Patch on the
   cliff of Niagara. To my amazement, also, I found, that running up the
   rigging at sea, especially during a squall, was much easier than while
   lying in port. For as you always go up on the windward side, and the
   ship leans over, it makes more of a stairs of the rigging; whereas, in
   harbor, it is almost straight up and down.
   Besides, the pitching and rolling only imparts a pleasant sort of
   vitality to the vessel; so that the difference in being aloft in a ship
   at sea, and a ship in harbor, is pretty much the same, as riding a real
   live horse and a wooden one. And even if the live charger should pitch
   you over his head, that would be much more satisfactory, than an
   inglorious fall from the other.
   I took great delight in furling the top-gallant sails and royals in a
   hard blow; which duty required two hands on the yard.
   There was a wild delirium about it; a fine rushing of the blood about
   the heart; and a glad, thrilling, and throbbing of the whole system, to
   find yourself tossed up at every pitch into the clouds of a stormy sky,
   and hovering like a judgment angel between heaven and earth; both hands
   free, with one foot in the rigging, and one somewhere behind you in the
   air. The sail would fill out Eke a balloon, with a report like a small
   cannon, and then collapse and sink away into a handful. And the feeling
   of mastering the rebellious canvas, and tying it down like a slave to
   the spar, and binding it over and over with the gasket, had a touch of
   pride and power in it, such as young King Richard must have felt, when
   he trampled down the insurgents of Wat Tyler.
   As for steering, they never would let me go to the helm, except during a
   calm, when I and the figure-head on the bow were about equally employed.
   By the way, that figure-head was a passenger I forgot to make mention of
   before.
