   
   He was a gallant six-footer of a Highlander "in full fig," with bright
   tartans, bare knees, barred leggings, and blue bonnet and the most
   vermilion of cheeks. He was game to his wooden marrow, and stood up to
   it through thick and thin; one foot a little advanced, and his right arm
   stretched forward, daring on the waves. In a gale of wind it was
   glorious to watch him standing at his post like a hero, and plunging up
   and down the watery Highlands and Lowlands, as the ship went roaming on
   her way. He was a veteran with many wounds of many sea-fights; and when
   he got to Liverpool a figure-head-builder there, amputated his left leg,
   and gave him another wooden one, which I am sorry to say, did not fit
   him very well, for ever after he looked as if he limped. Then this
   figure-head-surgeon gave him another nose, and touched up one eye, and
   repaired a rent in his tartans. After that the painter came and made his
   toilet all over again; giving him a new suit throughout, with a plaid of
   a beautiful pattern.
   I do not know what has become of Donald now, but I hope he is safe and
   snug with a handsome pension in the "Sailors'-Snug-Harbor" on Staten
   Island.
   The reason why they gave me such a slender chance of learning to steer
   was this. I was quite young and raw, and steering a ship is a great art,
   upon which much depends; especially the making a short passage; for if
   the helmsman be a clumsy, careless fellow, or ignorant of his duty, he
   keeps the ship going about in a melancholy state of indecision as to its
   precise destination; so that on a voyage to Liverpool, it may be
   pointing one while for Gibraltar, then for Rotterdam, and now for John
   o' Groat's; all of which is worse than wasted time. Whereas, a true
   steersman keeps her to her work night and day; and tries to make a
   bee-line from port to port.
   Then, in a sudden squall, inattention, or want of quickness at the helm,
   might make the ship "lurch to"--or "bring her by the lee." And what those
   things are, the cabin passengers would never find out, when they found
   themselves going down, down, down, and bidding good-by forever to the
   moon and stars.
   And they little think, many of them, fine gentlemen and ladies that they
   are, what an important personage, and how much to be had in reverence,
   is the rough fellow in the pea-jacket, whom they see standing at the
   wheel, now cocking his eye aloft, and then peeping at the compass, or
   looking out to windward.
   Why, that fellow has all your lives and eternities in his hand; and with
   one small and almost imperceptible motion of a spoke, in a gale of wind,
   might give a vast deal of work to surrogates and lawyers, in proving
   last wills and testaments.
   Ay, you may well stare at him now. He does not look much like a man who
   might play into the hands of an heir-at-law, does he? Yet such is the
   case. Watch him close, therefore; take him down into your state-room
   occasionally after a stormy watch, and make a friend of him. A glass of
   cordial will do it. And if you or your heirs are interested with the
   underwriters, then also have an eye on him. And if you remark, that of
   the crew, all the men who come to the helm are careless, or inefficient;
   and if you observe the captain scolding them often, and crying out:
   "Luff, you rascal; she's falling off!" or, "Keep her steady, you
   scoundrel, you're boxing the compass!" then hurry down to your state-
   room, and if you have not yet made a will, get out your stationery and
   go at it; and when it is done, seal it up in a bottle, like Columbus'
   log, and it may possibly drift ashore, when you are drowned in the next
   gale of wind.
   XXV. QUARTER-DECK FURNITURE
   Though, for reasons hinted at above, they would not let me steer, I
   contented myself with learning the compass, a graphic facsimile of which
   I drew on a blank leaf of the "Wealth of Nations," and studied it every
   morning, like the multiplication table.
   I liked to peep in at the binnacle, and watch the needle; arid I
   wondered how it was that it pointed north, rather than south or west;
   for I do not know that any reason can be given why it points in the
   precise direction it does. One would think, too, that, as since the
   beginning of the world almost, the tide of emigration has been setting
   west, the needle would point that way; whereas, it is forever pointing
   its fixed fore-finger toward the Pole, where there are few inducements
   to attract a sailor, unless it be plenty of ice for mint-juleps.
   Our binnacle, by the way, the place that holds a ship's compasses,
   deserves a word of mention. It was a little house, about the bigness of
   a common bird-cage, with sliding panel doors, and two drawing-rooms
   within, and constantly perched upon a stand, right in front of the helm.
   It had two chimney stacks to carry off the smoke of the lamp that burned
   in it by night.
   It was painted green, and on two sides had Venetian blinds; and on one
   side two glazed sashes; so that it looked like a cool little summer
   retreat, a snug bit of an arbor at the end of a shady garden lane. Had I
   been the captain, I would have planted vines in boxes, and placed them
   so as to overrun this binnacle; or I would have put canary-birds within;
   and so made an aviary of it. It is surprising what a different air may
   be imparted to the meanest thing by the dainty hand of taste. Nor must I
   omit the helm itself, which was one of a new construction, and a
   particular favorite of the captain. It was a complex system of cogs and
   wheels and spindles, all of polished brass, and looked something like a
   printing-press, or power-loom. The sailors, however, did not like it
   much, owing to the casualties that happened to their imprudent fingers,
   by catching in among the cogs and other intricate contrivances. Then,
   sometimes in a calm, when the sudden swells would lift the ship, the
   helm would fetch a lurch, and send the helmsman revolving round like
   Ixion, often seriously hurting him; a sort of breaking on the wheel.
   The harness-cask, also, a sort of sea side-board, or rather meat-safe,
   in which a week's allowance of salt pork and beef is kept, deserves
   being chronicled. It formed part of the standing furniture of the
   quarter-deck. Of an oval shape, it was banded round with hoops all
   silver-gilt, with gilded bands secured with gilded screws, and a gilded
   padlock, richly chased. This formed the captain's smoking-seat, where he
   would perch himself of an afternoon, a tasseled Chinese cap upon his
   head, and a fragrant Havanna between his white and canine-looking teeth.
   He took much solid comfort, Captain Riga.
   Then the magnificent capstan! The pride and glory of the whole ship's
   company, the constant care and dandled darling of the cook, whose duty
   it was to keep it polished like a teapot; and it was an object of
   distant admiration to the steerage passengers. Like a parlor center-
   table, it stood full in the middle of the quarter-deck, radiant with
   brazen stars, and variegated with diamond-shaped veneerings of
   mahogany and satin wood. This was the captain's lounge, and the chief
   mate's secretary, in the bar-holes keeping paper and pencil for
   memorandums.
   I might proceed and speak of the booby-hatch, used as a sort of settee
   by the officers, and the fife-rail round the mainmast, inclosing a
   little ark of canvas, painted green, where a small white dog with a blue
   ribbon round his neck, belonging to the dock-master's daughter, used to
   take his morning walks, and air himself in this small edition of the New
   York Bowling-Green.
