   
   As thus:--
   "Starboard watch, ahoy! eight bells there, below! Tumble up, my lively
   hearties; steamboat alongside waiting for your trunks: bear a hand, bear
   a hand with your knee-buckles, my sweet and pleasant fellows! fine
   shower-bath here on deck. Hurrah, hurrah! your ice-cream is getting
   cold!"
   Whereupon some of the old croakers who were getting into their trowsers
   would reply with--"Oh, stop your gabble, will you? don't be in such a
   hurry, now. You feel sweet, don't you?" with other exclamations, some of
   which were full of fury.
   And it was not a little curious to remark, that at the expiration of the
   ensuing watch, the tables would be turned; and we on deck became the
   wits and jokers, and those below the grizzly bears and growlers.
   XXVII. HE GETS A PEEP AT IRELAND, AND AT LAST ARRIVES AT LIVERPOOL
   The Highlander was not a grayhound, not a very fast sailer; and so, the
   passage, which some of the packet ships make in fifteen or sixteen days,
   employed us about thirty.
   At last, one morning I came on deck, and they told me that Ireland was
   in sight.
   Ireland in sight! A foreign country actually visible! I peered hard, but
   could see nothing but a bluish, cloud-like spot to the northeast. Was
   that Ireland? Why, there was nothing remarkable about that; nothing
   startling. If that's the way a foreign country looks, I might as well
   have staid at home.
   Now what, exactly, I had fancied the shore would look like, I can not
   say; but I had a vague idea that it would be something strange and
   wonderful. However, there it was; and as the light increased and the
   ship sailed nearer and nearer, the land began to magnify, and I gazed at
   it with increasing interest.
   Ireland! I thought of Robert Emmet, and that last speech of his before
   Lord Norbury; I thought of Tommy Moore, and his amatory verses: I
   thought of Curran, Grattan, Plunket, and O'Connell; I thought of my
   uncle's ostler, Patrick Flinnigan; and I thought of the shipwreck of the
   gallant Albion, tost to pieces on the very shore now in sight; and I
   thought I should very much like to leave the ship and visit Dublin and
   the Giant's Causeway.
   Presently a fishing-boat drew near, and I rushed to get a view of it;
   but it was a very ordinary looking boat, bobbing up and down, as any
   other boat would have done; yet, when I considered that the solitary man
   in it was actually a born native of the land in sight; that in all
   probability he had never been in America, and knew nothing about my
   friends at home, I began to think that he looked somewhat strange.
   He was a very fluent fellow, and as soon as we were within hailing
   distance, cried out--"Ah, my fine sailors, from Ameriky, ain't ye, my
   beautiful sailors?" And concluded by calling upon; us to stop and heave
   a rope. Thinking he might have something important to communicate, the
   mate accordingly backed I the main yard, and a rope being thrown, the
   stranger kept hauling in upon it, and coiling it down, crying, "pay out!
   pay out, my honeys; ah! but you're noble fellows!" Till at last the mate
   asked him why he did not come alongside, adding, "Haven't you enough
   rope yet?"
   "Sure and I have," replied the fisherman, "and it's time for Pat to cut
   and run!" and so saying, his knife severed the rope, and with a Kilkenny
   grin, he sprang to his tiller, put his little craft before the wind, and
   bowled away from us, with some fifteen fathoms of our tow-line.
   "And may the Old Boy hurry after you, and hang you in your stolen hemp,
   you Irish blackguard!" cried the mate, shaking his fist at the receding
   boat, after recovering from his first fit of amazement.
   Here, then, was a beautiful introduction to the eastern hemisphere;
   fairly robbed before striking soundings. This trick upon experienced
   travelers certainly beat all I had ever heard about the wooden nutmegs
   and bass-wood pumpkin seeds of Connecticut. And I thought if there were
   any more Hibernians like our friend Pat, the Yankee peddlers might as
   well give it up.
   The next land we saw was Wales. It was high noon, and a long line of
   purple mountains lay like banks of clouds against the east.
