   
   Could this be really Wales?-Wales?--and I thought of the Prince of Wales.
   And did a real queen with a diadem reign over that very land I was
   looking at, with the identical eyes in my own head?--And then I thought
   of a grandfather of mine, who had fought against the ancestor of this
   queen at Bunker's Hill.
   But, after all, the general effect of these mountains was mortifyingly
   like the general effect of the Kaatskill Mountains on the Hudson River.
   With a light breeze, we sailed on till next day, when we made Holyhead
   and Anglesea. Then it fell almost calm, and what little wind we had, was
   ahead; so we kept tacking to and fro, just gliding through the water,
   and always hovering in sight of a snow-white tower in the distance,
   which might have been a fort, or a light-house. I lost myself in
   conjectures as to what sort of people might be tenanting that lonely
   edifice, and whether they knew any thing about us.
   The third day, with a good wind over the taffrail, we arrived so near
   our destination, that we took a pilot at dusk.
   He, and every thing connected with him were very different from our New
   York pilot. In the first place, the pilot boat that brought him was a
   plethoric looking sloop-rigged boat, with flat bows, that went wheezing
   through the water; quite in contrast to the little gull of a schooner,
   that bade us adieu off Sandy Hook. Aboard of her were ten or twelve
   other pilots, fellows with shaggy brows, and muffled in shaggy coats,
   who sat grouped together on deck like a fire-side of bears, wintering in
   Aroostook. They must have had fine sociable times, though, together;
   cruising about the Irish Sea in quest of Liverpool-bound vessels;
   smoking cigars, drinking brandy-and-water, and spinning yarns; till at
   last, one by one, they are all scattered on board of different ships,
   and meet again by the side of a blazing sea-coal fire in some Liverpool
   taproom, and prepare for another yachting.
   Now, when this English pilot boarded us, I stared at him as if he had
   been some wild animal just escaped from the Zoological Gardens; for here
   was a real live Englishman, just from England. Nevertheless, as he soon
   fell to ordering us here and there, and swearing vociferously in a
   language quite familiar to me; I began to think him very common-place,
   and considerable of a bore after all.
   After running till about midnight, we "hove-to" near the mouth of the
   Mersey; and next morning, before day-break, took the first of the flood;
   and with a fair wind, stood into the river; which, at its mouth, is
   quite an arm of the sea. Presently, in the misty twilight, we passed
   immense buoys, and caught sight of distant objects on shore, vague and
   shadowy shapes, like Ossian's ghosts.
   As I stood leaning over the side, and trying to summon up some image of
   Liverpool, to see how the reality would answer to my conceit; and while
   the fog, and mist, and gray dawn were investing every thing with a
   mysterious interest, I was startled by the doleful, dismal sound of a
   great bell, whose slow intermitting tolling seemed in unison with the
   solemn roll of the billows. I thought I had never heard so boding a
   sound; a sound that seemed to speak of judgment and the resurrection,
   like belfry-mouthed Paul of Tarsus.
   It was not in the direction of the shore; but seemed to come out of the
   vaults of the sea, and out of the mist and fog.
   Who was dead, and what could it be?
   I soon learned from my shipmates, that this was the famous Bett-Buoy,
   which is precisely what its name implies; and tolls fast or slow,
   according to the agitation of the waves. In a calm, it is dumb; in a
   moderate breeze, it tolls gently; but in a gale, it is an alarum like
   the tocsin, warning all mariners to flee. But it seemed fuller of dirges
   for the past, than of monitions for the future; and no one can give ear
   to it, without thinking of the sailors who sleep far beneath it at the
   bottom of the deep.
   As we sailed ahead the river contracted. The day came, and soon, passing
   two lofty land-marks on the Lancashire shore, we rapidly drew near the
   town, and at last, came to anchor in the stream.
   Looking shoreward, I beheld lofty ranges of dingy warehouses, which
   seemed very deficient in the elements of the marvelous; and bore a most
   unexpected resemblance to the ware-houses along South-street in New
   York. There was nothing strange; nothing extraordinary about them. There
   they stood; a row of calm and collected ware-houses; very good and
   substantial edifices, doubtless, and admirably adapted to the ends had
   in view by the builders; but plain, matter-of-fact ware-houses,
   nevertheless, and that was all that could be said of them.
   To be sure, I did not expect that every house in Liverpool must be a
   Leaning Tower of Pisa, or a Strasbourg Cathedral; but yet, these
   edifices I must confess, were a sad and bitter disappointment to me.
   But it was different with Larry the whaleman; who to my surprise,
   looking about him delighted, exclaimed, "Why, this 'ere is a
   considerable place--I'm dummed if it ain't quite a place.--Why, them 'ere
   houses is considerable houses. It beats the coast of Afrilcy, all
   hollow; nothing like this in Madagasky, I tell you;--I'm dummed, boys if
   Liverpool ain't a city!"
   Upon this occasion, indeed, Larry altogether forgot his hostility to
   civilization. Having been so long accustomed to associate foreign lands
   with the savage places of the Indian Ocean, he had been under the
   impression, that Liverpool must be a town of bamboos, situated in some
   swamp, and whose inhabitants turned their attention principally to the
   cultivation of log-wood and curing of flying-fish. For that any great
   commercial city existed three thousand miles from home, was a thing, of
   which Larry had never before had a "realizing sense." He was accordingly
   astonished and delighted; and began to feel a sort of consideration for
   the country which could boast so extensive a town. Instead of holding
   Queen Victoria on a par with the Queen of Madagascar, as he had been
   accustomed to do; he ever after alluded to that lady with feeling and
   respect.
   As for the other seamen, the sight of a foreign country seemed to kindle
   no enthusiasm in them at all: no emotion in the least. They looked
   around them with great presence of mind, and acted precisely as you or I
   would, if, after a morning's absence round the corner, we found
   ourselves returning home. Nearly all of them had made frequent voyages
   to Liverpool.
   Not long after anchoring, several boats came off; and from one of them
   stept a neatly-dressed and very respectable-looking woman, some thirty
   years of age, I should think, carrying a bundle. Coming forward among
   the sailors, she inquired for Max the Dutchman, who immediately was
   forthcoming, and saluted her by the mellifluous appellation of Sally.
   Now during the passage, Max in discoursing to me of Liverpool, had often
   assured me, that that city had the honor of containing a spouse of his;
   and that in all probability, I would have the pleasure of seeing her.
   But having heard a good many stories about the bigamies of seamen, and
   their having wives and sweethearts in every port, the round world over;
   and having been an eye-witness to a nuptial parting between this very
   Max and a lady in New York; I put down this relation of his, for what I
   thought it might reasonably be worth. What was my astonishment,
   therefore, to see this really decent, civil woman coming with a neat
   parcel of Max's shore clothes, all washed, plaited, and ironed, and
   ready to put on at a moment's warning.
