   
   They stood apart a few moments giving loose to those transports of
   pleasure, which always take place, I suppose, between man and wife after
   long separations.
   At last, after many earnest inquiries as to how he had behaved himself
   in New York; and concerning the state of his wardrobe; and going down
   into the forecastle, and inspecting it in person, Sally departed; having
   exchanged her bundle of clean clothes for a bundle of soiled ones, and
   this was precisely what the New York wife had done for Max, not thirty I
   days previous.
   So long as we laid in port, Sally visited the Highlander daily; and
   approved herself a neat and expeditious getter-up of duck frocks and
   trowsers, a capital tailoress, and as far as I could see, a very
   well-behaved, discreet, and reputable woman.
   But from all I had seen of her, I should suppose Meg, the New York wife,
   to have been equally well-behaved, discreet, and reputable; and equally
   devoted to the keeping in good order Max's wardrobe.
   And when we left England at last, Sally bade Max good-by, just as Meg
   had done; and when we arrived at New York, Meg greeted Max precisely as
   Sally had greeted him in Liverpool. Indeed, a pair of more amiable wives
   never belonged to one man; they never quarreled, or had so much as a
   difference of any kind; the whole broad Atlantic being between them; and
   Max was equally polite and civil to both. For many years, he had been
   going Liverpool and New York voyages, plying between wife and wife with
   great regularity, and sure of receiving a hearty domestic welcome on
   either side of the ocean.
   Thinking this conduct of his, however, altogether wrong and every way
   immoral, I once ventured to express to him my opinion on the subject.
   But I never did so again. He turned round on me, very savagely; and
   after rating me soundly for meddling in concerns not my own, concluded
   by asking me triumphantly, whether old King Sol, as he called the son of
   David, did not have a whole frigate-full of wives; and that being the
   case, whether he, a poor sailor, did not have just as good a right to
   have two? "What was not wrong then, is right now," said Max; "so, mind
   your eye, Buttons, or I'll crack your pepper-box for you!"
   XXVIII. HE GOES TO SUPPER AT THE SIGN OF THE BALTIMORE CLIPPER
   In the afternoon our pilot was all alive with his orders; we hove up the
   anchor, and after a deal of pulling, and hauling, and jamming against
   other ships, we wedged our way through a lock at high tide; and about
   dark, succeeded in working up to a berth in Prince's Dock. The hawsers
   and tow-lines being then coiled away, the crew were told to go ashore,
   select their boarding-house, and sit down to supper.
   Here it must be mentioned, that owing to the strict but necessary
   regulations of the Liverpool docks, no fires of any kind are allowed on
   board the vessels within them; and hence, though the sailors are
   supposed to sleep in the forecastle, yet they must get their meals
   ashore, or live upon cold potatoes. To a ship, the American merchantmen
   adopt the former plan; the owners, of course, paying the landlord's
   bill; which, in a large crew remaining at Liverpool more than six weeks,
   as we of the Highlander did, forms no inconsiderable item in the
   expenses of the voyage. Other ships, however--the economical Dutch and
   Danish, for instance, and sometimes the prudent Scotch--feed their
   luckless tars in dock, with precisely the same fare which they give them
   at sea; taking their salt junk ashore to be cooked, which, indeed, is
   but scurvy sort of treatment, since it is very apt to induce the scurvy.
   A parsimonious proceeding like this is regarded with immeasurable
   disdain by the crews of the New York vessels, who, if their captains
   treated them after that fashion, would soon bolt and run.
   It was quite dark, when we all sprang ashore; and, for the first time, I
   felt dusty particles of the renowned British soil penetrating into my
   eyes and lungs. As for stepping on it, that was out of the question, in
   the well-paved and flagged condition of the streets; and I did not have
   an opportunity to do so till some time afterward, when I got out into
   the country; and then, indeed, I saw England, and snuffed its immortal
   loam-but not till then.
   Jackson led the van; and after stopping at a tavern, took us up this
   street, and down that, till at last he brought us to a narrow lane,
   filled with boarding-houses, spirit-vaults, and sailors. Here we stopped
   before the sign of a Baltimore Clipper, flanked on one side by a gilded
   bunch of grapes and a bottle, and on the other by the British Unicorn
   and American Eagle, lying down by each other, like the lion and lamb in
   the millennium.--A very judicious and tasty device, showing a delicate
   apprehension of the propriety of conciliating American sailors in an
   English boarding-house; and yet in no way derogating from the honor and
   dignity of England, but placing the two nations, indeed, upon a footing
   of perfect equality.
   Near the unicorn was a very small animal, which at first I took for a
   young unicorn; but it looked more like a yearling lion. It was holding
   up one paw, as if it had a splinter in it; and on its head was a sort of
   basket-hilted, low-crowned hat, without a rim. I asked a sailor standing
   by, what this animal meant, when, looking at me with a grin, he
   answered, "Why, youngster, don't you know what that means? It's a young
   jackass, limping off with a kedgeree pot of rice out of the cuddy."
   Though it was an English boarding-house, it was kept by a broken-down
   American mariner, one Danby, a dissolute, idle fellow, who had married a
   buxom English wife, and now lived upon her industry; for the lady, and
   not the sailor, proved to be the head of the establishment.
   She was a hale, good-looking woman, about forty years old, and among the
   seamen went by the name of "Handsome Mary." But though, from the
   dissipated character of her spouse, Mary had become the business
   personage of the house, bought the marketing, overlooked the tables, and
   conducted all the more important arrangements, yet she was by no means
   an Amazon to her husband, if she did play a masculine part in other
   matters. No; and the more is the pity, poor Mary seemed too much
   attached to Danby, to seek to rule him as a termagant. Often she went
   about her household concerns with the tears in her eyes, when, after a
   fit of intoxication, this brutal husband of hers had been beating her.
   The sailors took her part, and many a time volunteered to give him a
   thorough thrashing before her eyes; but Mary would beg them not to do
   so, as Danby would, no doubt, be a better boy next time.
   But there seemed no likelihood of this, so long as that abominable bar
   of his stood upon the premises. As you entered the passage, it stared
   upon you on one side, ready to entrap all guests.
   It was a grotesque, old-fashioned, castellated sort of a sentry-box,
   made of a smoky-colored wood, and with a grating in front, that lifted
   up like a portcullis. And here would this Danby sit all the day long;
   and when customers grew thin, would patronize his own ale himself,
   pouring down mug after mug, as if he took himself for one of his own
   quarter-casks.
