   
   Sometimes an old crony of his, one Bob Still, would come in; and then
   they would occupy the sentry-box together, and swill their beer in
   concert. This pot-friend of Danby was portly as a dray-horse, and had a
   round, sleek, oily head, twinkling eyes, and moist red cheeks. He was a
   lusty troller of ale-songs; and, with his mug in his hand, would lean
   his waddling bulk partly out of the sentry-box, singing:
      "No frost, no snow, no wind, I trow,
       Can hurt me if I wold, I am so wrapt, and thoroughly lapt
       In jolly good ale and old,--
       I stuff my skin so full within,
       Of jolly good ale and old."
   Or this,
      "Four wines and brandies I detest,
       Here's richer juice from barley press'd.
       It is the quintessence of malt,
       And they that drink it want no salt.
       Come, then, quick come, and take this beer,
       And water henceforth you'll forswear."
   Alas! Handsome Mary. What avail all thy private tears and remonstrances
   with the incorrigible Danby, so long as that brewery of a toper, Bob
   Still, daily eclipses thy threshold with the vast diameter of his
   paunch, and enthrones himself in the sentry-box, holding divided rule
   with thy spouse?
   The more he drinks, the fatter and rounder waxes Bob; and the songs pour
   out as the ale pours in, on the well-known principle, that the air in a
   vessel is displaced and expelled, as the liquid rises higher and higher
   in it.
   But as for Danby, the miserable Yankee grows sour on good cheer, and
   dries up the thinner for every drop of fat ale he imbibes. It is plain
   and demonstrable, that much ale is not good for Yankees, and operates
   differently upon them from what it does upon a Briton: ale must be drank
   in a fog and a drizzle.
   Entering the sign of the Clipper, Jackson ushered us into a small room
   on one side, and shortly after, Handsome Mary waited upon us with a
   courtesy, and received the compliments of several old guests among our
   crew. She then disappeared to provide our supper. While my shipmates
   were now engaged in tippling, and talking with numerous old
   acquaintances of theirs in the neighborhood, who thronged about the
   door, I remained alone in the little room, meditating profoundly upon
   the fact, that I was now seated upon an English bench, under an English
   roof, in an English tavern, forming an integral part of the English
   empire. It was a staggering fact, but none the less true.
   I examined the place attentively; it was a long, narrow, little room,
   with one small arched window with red curtains, looking out upon a
   smoky, untidy yard, bounded by a dingy brick-wall, the top of which was
   horrible with pieces of broken old bottles, stuck into mortar.
   A dull lamp swung overhead, placed in a wooden ship suspended from the
   ceiling. The walls were covered with a paper, representing an endless
   succession of vessels of all nations continually circumnavigating the
   apartment. By way of a pictorial mainsail to one of these ships, a map
   was hung against it, representing in faded colors the flags of all
   nations. From the street came a confused uproar of ballad-singers,
   bawling women, babies, and drunken sailors.
   And this is England?
   But where are the old abbeys, and the York Minsters, and the lord
   mayors, and coronations, and the May-poles, and fox-hunters, and Derby
   races, and the dukes and duchesses, and the Count d'Orsays, which, from
   all my reading, I had been in the habit of associating with England? Not
   the most distant glimpse of them was to be seen.
   Alas! Wellingborough, thought I, I fear you stand but a poor chance to
   see the sights. You are nothing but a poor sailor boy; and the Queen is
   not going to send a deputation of noblemen to invite you to St. James's.
   It was then, I began to see, that my prospects of seeing the world as a
   sailor were, after all, but very doubtful; for sailors only go round the
   world, without going into it; and their reminiscences of travel are only
   a dim recollection of a chain of tap-rooms surrounding the globe,
   parallel with the Equator. They but touch the perimeter of the circle;
   hover about the edges of terra-firma; and only land upon wharves and
   pier-heads. They would dream as little of traveling inland to see
   Kenilworth, or Blenheim Castle, as they would of sending a car overland
   to the Pope, when they touched at Naples.
   From these reveries I was soon roused, by a servant girl hurrying from
   room to room, in shrill tones exclaiming, "Supper, supper ready."
   Mounting a rickety staircase, we entered a room on the second floor.
   Three tall brass candlesticks shed a smoky light upon smoky walls, of
   what had once been sea-blue, covered with sailor-scrawls of foul
   anchors, lovers' sonnets, and ocean ditties. On one side, nailed against
   the wainscot in a row, were the four knaves of cards, each Jack putting
   his best foot foremost as usual. What these signified I never heard.
   But such ample cheer! Such a groaning table! Such a superabundance of
   solids and substantial! Was it possible that sailors fared thus?--the
   sailors, who at sea live upon salt beef and biscuit?
   First and foremost, was a mighty pewter dish, big as Achilles' shield,
   sustaining a pyramid of smoking sausages. This stood at one end; midway
   was a similar dish, heavily laden with farmers' slices of head-cheese;
   and at the opposite end, a congregation of beef-steaks, piled tier over
   tier. Scattered at intervals between, were side dishes of boiled
   potatoes, eggs by the score, bread, and pickles; and on a stand
   adjoining, was an ample reserve of every thing on the supper table.
   We fell to with all our hearts; wrapt ourselves in hot jackets of
   beef-steaks; curtailed the sausages with great celerity; and sitting
   down before the head-cheese, soon razed it to its foundations.
   Toward the close of the entertainment, I suggested to Peggy, one of the
   girls who had waited upon us, that a cup of tea would be a nice thing to
   take; and I would thank her for one. She replied that it was too late
   for tea; but she would get me a cup of "swipes" if I wanted it.
