   
   Not knowing what "swipes" might be, I thought I would run the risk and
   try it; but it proved a miserable beverage, with a musty, sour flavor,
   as if it had been a decoction of spoiled pickles. I never patronized
   swipes again; but gave it a wide berth; though, at dinner afterward, it
   was furnished to an unlimited extent, and drunk by most of my shipmates,
   who pronounced it good.
   But Bob Still would not have pronounced it so; for this stripes, as I
   learned, was a sort of cheap substitute for beer; or a bastard kind of
   beer; or the washings and rinsings of old beer-barrels. But I do not
   remember now what they said it was, precisely. I only know, that swipes
   was my abomination. As for the taste of it, I can only describe it as
   answering to the name itself; which is certainly significant of
   something vile. But it is drunk in large quantities by the poor people
   about Liverpool, which, perhaps, in some degree, accounts for their
   poverty.
   XXIX. REDBURN DEFERENTIALLY DISCOURSES CONCERNING THE PROSPECTS OF
   SAILORS
   The ship remained in Prince's Dock over six weeks; but as I do not mean
   to present a diary of my stay there, I shall here simply record the
   general tenor of the life led by our crew during that interval; and will
   then proceed to note down, at random, my own wanderings about town, and
   impressions of things as they are recalled to me now, after the lapse of
   so many years.
   But first, I must mention that we saw little of the captain during our
   stay in the dock. Sometimes, cane in hand, he sauntered down of a
   pleasant morning from the Arms Hotel, I believe it was, where he
   boarded; and after lounging about the ship, giving orders to his Prime
   Minister and Grand Vizier, the chief mate, he would saunter back to his
   drawing-rooms.
   From the glimpse of a play-bill, which I detected peeping out of his
   pocket, I inferred that he patronized the theaters; and from the flush
   of his cheeks, that he patronized the fine old Port wine, for which
   Liverpool is famous.
   Occasionally, however, he spent his nights on board; and mad, roystering
   nights they were, such as rare Ben Jonson would have delighted in. For
   company over the cabin-table, he would have four or five whiskered
   sea-captains, who kept the steward drawing corks and filling glasses all
   the time. And once, the whole company were found under the table at four
   o'clock in the morning, and were put to bed and tucked in by the two
   mates. Upon this occasion, I agreed with our woolly Doctor of Divinity,
   the black cook, that they should have been ashamed of themselves; but
   there is no shame in some sea-captains, who only blush after the third
   bottle.
   During the many visits of Captain Riga to the ship, he always said
   something courteous to a gentlemanly, friendless custom-house officer,
   who staid on board of us nearly all the time we lay in the dock.
   And weary days they must have been to this friendless custom-house
   officer; trying to kill time in the cabin with a newspaper; and rapping
   on the transom with his knuckles. He was kept on board to prevent
   smuggling; but he used to smuggle himself ashore very often, when,
   according to law, he should have been at his post on board ship. But no
   wonder; he seemed to be a man of fine feelings, altogether above his
   situation; a most inglorious one, indeed; worse than driving geese to
   water.
   And now, to proceed with the crew.
   At daylight, all hands were called, and the decks were washed down; then
   we had an hour to go ashore to breakfast; after which we worked at the
   rigging, or picked oakum, or were set to some employment or other, never
   mind how trivial, till twelve o'clock, when we went to dinner. At
   half-past nine we resumed work; and finally knocked of at four o'clock
   in the afternoon, unless something particular was in hand. And after
   four o'clock, we could go where we pleased, and were not required to be
   on board again till next morning at daylight.
   As we had nothing to do with the cargo, of course, our duties were light
   enough; and the chief mate was often put to it to devise some employment
   for us.
   We had no watches to stand, a ship-keeper, hired from shore, relieving
   us from that; and all the while the men's wages ran on, as at sea.
   Sundays we had to ourselves.
   Thus, it will be seen, that the life led by sailors of American ships in
   Liverpool, is an exceedingly easy one, and abounding in leisure. They
   live ashore on the fat of the land; and after a little wholesome
   exercise in the morning, have the rest of the day to themselves.
   Nevertheless, these Liverpool voyages, likewise those to London and
   Havre, are the least profitable that an improvident seaman can take.
   Because, in New York he receives his month's advance; in Liverpool,
   another; both of which, in most cases, quickly disappear; so that by the
   time his voyage terminates, he generally has but little coming to him;
   sometimes not a cent. Whereas, upon a long voyage, say to India or
   China, his wages accumulate; he has more inducements to economize, and
   far fewer motives to extravagance; and when he is paid off at last, he
   goes away jingling a quart measure of dollars.
   Besides, of all sea-ports in the world, Liverpool, perhaps, most abounds
   in all the variety of land-sharks, land-rats, and other vermin, which
   make the hapless mariner their prey. In the shape of landlords,
   bar-keepers, clothiers, crimps, and boarding-house loungers, the
   land-sharks devour him, limb by limb; while the land-rats and mice
   constantly nibble at his purse.
