   
   Other perils he runs, also, far worse; from the denizens of notorious
   Corinthian haunts in the vicinity of the docks, which in depravity are
   not to be matched by any thing this side of the pit that is bottomless.
   And yet, sailors love this Liverpool; and upon long voyages to distant
   parts of the globe, will be continually dilating upon its charms and
   attractions, and extolling it above all other seaports in the world. For
   in Liverpool they find their Paradise--not the well known street of that
   name--and one of them told me he would be content to lie in Prince's Dock
   till he hove up anchor for the world to come.
   Much is said of ameliorating the condition of sailors; but it must ever
   prove a most difficult endeavor, so long as the antidote is given before
   the bane is removed.
   Consider, that, with the majority of them, the very fact of their being
   sailors, argues a certain recklessness and sensualism of character,
   ignorance, and depravity; consider that they are generally friendless
   and alone in the world; or if they have friends and relatives, they are
   almost constantly beyond the reach of their good influences; consider
   that after the rigorous discipline, hardships, dangers, and privations
   of a voyage, they are set adrift in a foreign port, and exposed to a
   thousand enticements, which, under the circumstances, would be hard even
   for virtue itself to withstand, unless virtue went about on crutches;
   consider that by their very vocation they are shunned by the better
   classes of people, and cut off from all access to respectable and
   improving society; consider all this, and the reflecting mind must very
   soon perceive that the case of sailors, as a class, is not a very
   promising one.
   Indeed, the bad things of their condition come under the head of those
   chronic evils which can only be ameliorated, it would seem, by
   ameliorating the moral organization of all civilization.
   Though old seventy-fours and old frigates are converted into chapels,
   and launched into the docks; though the "Boatswain's Mate" and other
   clever religious tracts in the nautical dialect are distributed among
   them; though clergymen harangue them from the pier-heads: and chaplains
   in the navy read sermons to them on the gun-deck; though evangelical
   boarding-houses are provided for them; though the parsimony of
   ship-owners has seconded the really sincere and pious efforts of
   Temperance Societies, to take away from seamen their old rations of grog
   while at sea:--notwithstanding all these things, and many more, the
   relative condition of the great bulk of sailors to the rest of mankind,
   seems to remain pretty much where it was, a century ago.
   It is too much the custom, perhaps, to regard as a special advance, that
   unavoidable, and merely participative progress, which any one class
   makes in sharing the general movement of the race. Thus, because the
   sailor, who to-day steers the Hibernia or Unicorn steam-ship across the
   Atlantic, is a somewhat different man from the exaggerated sailors of
   Smollett, and the men who fought with Nelson at Copenhagen, and survived
   to riot themselves away at North Corner in Plymouth;--because the modern
   tar is not quite so gross as heretofore, and has shaken off some of his
   shaggy jackets, and docked his Lord Rodney queue:--therefore, in the
   estimation of some observers, he has begun to see the evils of his
   condition, and has voluntarily improved. But upon a closer scrutiny, it
   will be seen that he has but drifted along with that great tide, which,
   perhaps, has two flows for one ebb; he has made no individual advance of
   his own.
   There are classes of men in the world, who bear the same relation to
   society at large, that the wheels do to a coach: and are just as
   indispensable. But however easy and delectable the springs upon which
   the insiders pleasantly vibrate: however sumptuous the hammer-cloth, and
   glossy the door-panels; yet, for all this, the wheels must still revolve
   in dusty, or muddy revolutions. No contrivance, no sagacity can lift
   them out of the mire; for upon something the coach must be bottomed; on
   something the insiders must roll.
   Now, sailors form one of these wheels: they go and come round the globe;
   they are the true importers, and exporters of spices and silks; of
   fruits and wines and marbles; they carry missionaries, embassadors,
   opera-singers, armies, merchants, tourists, and scholars to their
   destination: they are a bridge of boats across the Atlantic; they are
   the primum mobile of all commerce; and, in short, were they to emigrate
   in a body to man the navies of the moon, almost every thing would stop
   here on earth except its revolution on its axis, and the orators in the
   American Congress.
   And yet, what are sailors? What in your heart do you think of that
   fellow staggering along the dock? Do you not give him a wide berth, shun
   him, and account him but little above the brutes that perish? Will you
   throw open your parlors to him; invite him to dinner? or give him a
   season ticket to your pew in church?--No. You will do no such thing; but
   at a distance, you will perhaps subscribe a dollar or two for the
   building of a hospital, to accommodate sailors already broken down; or
   for the distribution of excellent books among tars who can not read. And
   the very mode and manner in which such charities are made, bespeak, more
   than words, the low estimation in which sailors are held. It is useless
   to gainsay it; they are deemed almost the refuse and offscourings of the
   earth; and the romantic view of them is principally had through
   romances.
   But can sailors, one of the wheels of this world, be wholly lifted up
   from the mire? There seems not much chance for it, in the old systems
   and programmes of the future, however well-intentioned and sincere; for
   with such systems, the thought of lifting them up seems almost as
   hopeless as that of growing the grape in Nova Zembla.
   But we must not altogether despair for the sailor; nor need those who
   toil for his good be at bottom disheartened, or Time must prove his
   friend in the end; and though sometimes he would almost seem as a
   neglected step-son of heaven, permitted to run on and riot out his days
   with no hand to restrain him, while others are watched over and tenderly
   cared for; yet we feel and we know that God is the true Father of all,
   and that none of his children are without the pale of his care.
   XXX. REDBURN GROWS INTOLERABLY FLAT AND STUPID OVER SOME OUTLANDISH OLD
   GUIDE-BOOKS
   Among the odd volumes in my father's library, was a collection of old
   European and English guide-books, which he had bought on his travels, a
   great many years ago. In my childhood, I went through many courses of
   studying them, and never tired of gazing at the numerous quaint
   embellishments and plates, and staring at the strange title-pages, some
   of which I thought resembled the mustached faces of foreigners. Among
   others was a Parisian-looking, faded, pink-covered pamphlet, the rouge
   here and there effaced upon its now thin and attenuated cheeks,
   entitled, "Voyage Descriptif et Philosophique de L'Ancien et du Nouveau
   Paris: Miroir Fidele" also a time-darkened, mossy old book, in
   marbleized binding, much resembling verd-antique, entitled, "Itineraire
   Instructif de Rome, ou Description Generale des Monumens Antiques et
   Modernes et des Ouvrages les plus Remarquables de Peinteur, de
   Sculpture, et de Architecture de cette Celebre Ville;" on the russet
   title-page is a vignette representing a barren rock, partly shaded by a
   scrub-oak (a forlorn bit of landscape), and under the lee of the rock
   and the shade of the tree, maternally reclines the houseless
   foster-mother of Romulus and Remus, giving suck to the illustrious
   twins; a pair of naked little cherubs sprawling on the ground, with
   locked arms, eagerly engaged at their absorbing occupation; a large
   cactus-leaf or diaper hangs from a bough, and the wolf looks a good deal
   like one of the no-horn breed of barn-yard cows; the work is published
   "Avec privilege du Souverain Pontife." There was also a velvet-bound old
   volume, in brass clasps, entitled, "The Conductor through Holland" with
   a plate of the Stadt House; also a venerable "Picture of London"
   abounding in representations of St. Paul's, the Monument, Temple-Bar,
   Hyde-Park-Corner, the Horse Guards, the Admiralty, Charing-Cross, and
   Vauxhall Bridge. Also, a bulky book, in a dusty-looking yellow cover,
   reminding one of the paneled doors of a mail-coach, and bearing an
   elaborate title-page, full of printer's flourishes, in emulation of the
   cracks of a four-in-hand whip, entitled, in part, "The Great Roads, both
   direct and cross, throughout England and Wales, from an actual
   Admeasurement by order of His Majesty's Postmaster-General: This work
   describes the Cities, Market and Borough and Corporate Towns, and those
   at which the Assizes are held, and gives the time of the Mails' arrival
   and departure from each: Describes the Inns in the Metropolis from which
   the stages go, and the Inns in the country which supply post-horses and
   carriages: Describes the Noblemen and Gentlemen's Seats situated near
   the Road, with Maps of the Environs of London, Bath, Brighton, and
   Margate." It is dedicated "To the Right Honorable the Earls of
   Chesterfield and Leicester, by their Lordships' Most Obliged, Obedient,
   and Obsequious Servant, John Gary, 1798." Also a green pamphlet, with a
   motto from Virgil, and an intricate coat of arms on the cover, looking
   like a diagram of the Labyrinth of Crete, entitled, "A Description of
   York, its Antiquities and Public Buildings, particularly the Cathedral;
   compiled with great pains from the most authentic records." Also a small
   scholastic-looking volume, in a classic vellum binding, and with a
   frontispiece bringing together at one view the towers and turrets of
   King's College and the magnificent Cathedral of Ely, though
   geographically sixteen miles apart, entitled, "The Cambridge Guide: its
   Colleges, Halls, Libraries, and Museums, with the Ceremonies of the Town
   and University, and some account of Ely Cathedral." Also a pamphlet,
   with a japanned sort of cover, stamped with a disorderly
   higgledy-piggledy group of pagoda-looking structures, claiming to be an
   accurate representation of the "North or Grand Front of Blenheim," and
   entitled, "A Description of Blenheim, the Seat of His Grace the Duke of
   Marlborough; containing a full account of the Paintings, Tapestry, and
   Furniture: a Picturesque Tour of the Gardens and Parks, and a General
   Description of the famous China Gallery, 6-c.; with an Essay on
   Landscape Gardening: and embellished with a View of the Palace, and a
   New and Elegant Plan of the Great Park." And lastly, and to the purpose,
   there was a volume called "THE PICTURE OF LIVERPOOL."
   It was a curious and remarkable book; and from the many fond
   associations connected with it, I should like to immortalize it, if I
   could.
   But let me get it down from its shrine, and paint it, if I may, from the
   life.
