   
   The fact was, that my young friend (for he was only about twenty-five)
   was not a very wise man; and this was a huge fib, which out of the
   kindness of his heart, he told in my behalf, for the purpose of creating
   a profound respect for me in the eyes of my future lord.
   Upon being apprized, that I had willfully forborne taking the grand tour
   with a tutor, in order to put my hand in a tar-bucket, the handsome
   captain looked ten times more funny than ever; and said that he himself
   would be my tutor, and take me on my travels, and pay for the privilege.
   "Ah!" said my friend, "that reminds me of business. Pray, captain, how
   much do you generally pay a handsome young fellow like this?"
   "Well," said the captain, looking grave and profound, "we are not so
   particular about beauty, and we never give more than three dollars to a
   green lad like Wellingborough here, that's your name, my boy?
   Wellingborough Redburn!--Upon my soul, a fine sounding name."
   "Why, captain," said Mr. Jones, quickly interrupting him, "that won't
   pay for his clothing."
   "But you know his highly respectable and wealthy relations will
   doubtless see to all that," replied the captain, with his funny look
   again.
   "Oh! yes, I forgot that," said Mr. Jones, looking rather foolish. "His
   friends will of course see to that."
   "Of course," said the captain smiling.
   "Of course," repeated Mr. Jones, looking ruefully at the patch on my
   pantaloons, which just then I endeavored to hide with the skirt of my
   shooting-jacket.
   "You are quite a sportsman I see," said the captain, eying the great
   buttons on my coat, upon each of which was a carved fox.
   Upon this my benevolent friend thought that here was a grand opportunity
   to befriend me.
   "Yes, he's quite a sportsman," said he, "he's got a very valuable
   fowling-piece at home, perhaps you would like to purchase it, captain,
   to shoot gulls with at sea? It's cheap."
   "Oh! no, he had better leave it with his relations," said the captain,
   "so that he can go hunting again when he returns from England."
   "Yes, perhaps that would be better, after all," said my friend,
   pretending to fall into a profound musing, involving all sides of the
   matter in hand. "Well, then, captain, you can only give the boy three
   dollars a month, you say?"
   "Only three dollars a month," said the captain.
   "And I believe," said my friend, "that you generally give something in
   advance, do you not?"
   "Yes, that is sometimes the custom at the shipping offices," said the
   captain, with a bow, "but in this case, as the boy has rich relations,
   there will be no need of that, you know."
   And thus, by his ill-advised, but well-meaning hints concerning the
   respectability of my paternity, and the immense wealth of my relations,
   did this really honest-hearted but foolish friend of mine, prevent me
   from getting three dollars in advance, which I greatly needed. However,
   I said nothing, though I thought the more; and particularly, how that it
   would have been much better for me, to have gone on board alone,
   accosted the captain on my own account, and told him the plain truth.
   Poor people make a very poor business of it when they try to seem rich.
   The arrangement being concluded, we bade the captain good morning; and
   as we were about leaving the cabin, he smiled again, and said, "Well,
   Redburn, my boy, you won't get home-sick before you sail, because that
   will make you very sea-sick when you get to sea."
   And with that he smiled very pleasantly, and bowed two or three times,
   and told the steward to open the cabin-door, which the steward did with
   a peculiar sort of grin on his face, and a slanting glance at my
   shooting-jacket. And so we left.
