   
   As I now linger over the volume, to and fro turning the pages so dear to
   my boyhood,--the very pages which, years and years ago, my father turned
   over amid the very scenes that are here described; what a soft, pleasing
   sadness steals over me, and how I melt into the past and forgotten!
   Dear book! I will sell my Shakespeare, and even sacrifice my old quarto
   Hogarth, before I will part with you. Yes, I will go to the hammer
   myself, ere I send you to be knocked down in the auctioneer's shambles.
   I will, my beloved,--old family relic that you are;--till you drop leaf
   from leaf, and letter from letter, you shall have a snug shelf
   somewhere, though I have no bench for myself.
   In size, it is what the booksellers call an 18mo; it is bound in green
   morocco, which from my earliest recollection has been spotted and
   tarnished with time; the corners are marked with triangular patches of
   red, like little cocked hats; and some unknown Goth has inflicted an
   incurable wound upon the back. There is no lettering outside; so that he
   who lounges past my humble shelves, seldom dreams of opening the
   anonymous little book in green. There it stands; day after day, week
   after week, year after year; and no one but myself regards it. But I
   make up for all neglects, with my own abounding love for it.
   But let us open the volume.
   What are these scrawls in the fly-leaves? what incorrigible pupil of a
   writing-master has been here? what crayon sketcher of wild animals and
   falling air-castles? Ah, no!--these are all part and parcel of the
   precious book, which go to make up the sum of its treasure to me.
   Some of the scrawls are my own; and as poets do with their juvenile
   sonnets, I might write under this horse, "Drawn at the age of three
   years," and under this autograph, "Executed at the age of eight."
   Others are the handiwork of my brothers, and sisters, and cousins; and
   the hands that sketched some of them are now moldered away.
   But what does this anchor here? this ship? and this sea-ditty of
   Dibdin's? The book must have fallen into the hands of some tarry captain
   of a forecastle. No: that anchor, ship, and Dibdin's ditty are mine;
   this hand drew them; and on this very voyage to Liverpool. But not so
   fast; I did not mean to tell that yet.
   Full in the midst of these pencil scrawlings, completely surrounded
   indeed, stands in indelible, though faded ink, and in my father's
   hand-writing, the following:--
   "WALTER REDBURN.
   "Riddough's Royal Hotel, Liverpool, March 20th, 1808."
   Turning over that leaf, I come upon some half-effaced miscellaneous
   memoranda in pencil, characteristic of a methodical mind, and therefore
   indubitably my father's, which he must have made at various times during
   his stay in Liverpool. These are full of a strange, subdued, old,
   midsummer interest to me: and though, from the numerous effacements, it
   is much like cross-reading to make them out; yet, I must here copy a few
   at random:--
                                         £  s. d
       Guide-Book                           3  6
       Dinner at the Star and Garter          10
       Trip to Preston (distance 31 m.)  2  6  3
       Gratuities                              4
       Hack                                 4  6
       Thompson's Seasons                      5
       Library                                 1
       Boat on the river                       6
       Port wine and cigar                     4
   And on the opposite page, I can just decipher the following:
       Dine with Mr. Roscoe on Monday.
       Call upon Mr. Morille same day.
       Leave card at Colonel Digby's on Tuesday.
       Theatre Friday night--Richard III. and new farce.
       Present letter at Miss L----'s on Tuesday.
       Call on Sampson & Wilt, Friday.
       Get my draft on London cashed.
       Write home by the Princess.
       Letter bag at Sampson and Wilt's.
   Turning over the next leaf, I unfold a map, which in the midst of the
   British Arms, in one corner displays in sturdy text, that this is "A
   Plan of the Town of Liverpool." But there seems little plan in the
   confined and crooked looking marks for the streets, and the docks
   irregularly scattered along the bank of the Mersey, which flows along, a
   peaceful stream of shaded line engraving.
   On the northeast corner of the map, lies a level Sahara of yellowish
   white: a desert, which still bears marks of my zeal in endeavoring to
   populate it with all manner of uncouth monsters in crayons. The space
   designated by that spot is now, doubtless, completely built up in
   Liverpool.
   Traced with a pen, I discover a number of dotted lines, radiating in all
   directions from the foot of Lord-street, where stands marked "Riddough's
   Hotel," the house my father stopped at.
   These marks delineate his various excursions in the town; and I follow
   the lines on, through street and lane; and across broad squares; and
   penetrate with them into the narrowest courts.
