   
   By these marks, I perceive that my father forgot not his religion in a
   foreign land; but attended St. John's Church near the Hay-market, and
   other places of public worship: I see that he visited the News Room in
   Duke-street, the Lyceum in Bold-street, and the Theater Royal; and that
   he called to pay his respects to the eminent Mr. Roscoe, the historian,
   poet, and banker.
   Reverentially folding this map, I pass a plate of the Town Hall, and
   come upon the Title Page, which, in the middle, is ornamented with a
   piece of landscape, representing a loosely clad lady in sandals,
   pensively seated upon a bleak rock on the sea shore, supporting her head
   with one hand, and with the other, exhibiting to the stranger an oval
   sort of salver, bearing the figure of a strange bird, with this motto
   elastically stretched for a border--"Deus nobis haec otia fecit."
   The bird forms part of the city arms, and is an imaginary representation
   of a now extinct fowl, called the "Liver," said to have inhabited a
   "pool," which antiquarians assert once covered a good part of the ground
   where Liverpool now stands; and from that bird, and this pool, Liverpool
   derives its name.
   At a distance from the pensive lady in sandals, is a ship under full
   sail; and on the beach is the figure of a small man, vainly essaying to
   roll over a huge bale of goods.
   Equally divided at the top and bottom of this design, is the following
   title complete; but I fear the printer will not be able to give a
   facsimile:--
                            The Picture
                            of Liverpool:
                        or, Stranger's Guide
                  and Gentleman's Pocket Companion
                            FOR THE TOWN.
                             Embellished
                           With Engravings
             By the Most Accomplished and Eminent Artists.
                              Liverpool:
                      Printed in Swift's Court,
         And sold by Woodward and Alderson, 56 Castle St. 1803.
   A brief and reverential preface, as if the writer were all the time
   bowing, informs the reader of the flattering reception accorded to
   previous editions of the work; and quotes "testimonies of respect which
   had lately appeared in various quarters--the British Critic, Review, and
   the seventh volume of the Beauties of England and Wales"--and concludes
   by expressing the hope, that this new, revised, and illustrated edition
   might "render it less unworthy of the public notice, and less unworthy
   also of the subject it is intended to illustrate."
   A very nice, dapper, and respectful little preface, the time and place
   of writing which is solemnly recorded at the end-Hope Place, 1st Sept.
   1803.
   But how much fuller my satisfaction, as I fondly linger over this
   circumstantial paragraph, if the writer had recorded the precise hour of
   the day, and by what timepiece; and if he had but mentioned his age,
   occupation, and name.
   But all is now lost; I know not who he was; and this estimable author
   must needs share the oblivious fate of all literary incognitos.
   He must have possessed the grandest and most elevated ideas of true
   fame, since he scorned to be perpetuated by a solitary initial. Could I
   find him out now, sleeping neglected in some churchyard, I would buy him
   a headstone, and record upon it naught but his title-page, deeming that
   his noblest epitaph.
   After the preface, the book opens with an extract from a prologue
   written by the excellent Dr. Aiken, the brother of Mrs. Barbauld, upon
   the opening of the Theater Royal, Liverpool, in 1772:--
   "Where Mersey's stream, long winding o'er the plain, Pours his full
   tribute to the circling main, A band of fishers chose their humble seat;
   Contented labor blessed the fair retreat, Inured to hardship, patient,
   bold, and rude, They braved the billows for precarious food: Their
   straggling huts were ranged along the shore, Their nets and little boats
   their only store."
   Indeed, throughout, the work abounds with quaint poetical quotations,
   and old-fashioned classical allusions to the Aeneid and Falconer's
   Shipwreck.
   And the anonymous author must have been not only a scholar and a
   gentleman, but a man of gentle disinterestedness, combined with true
   city patriotism; for in his "Survey of the Town" are nine thickly
   printed pages of a neglected poem by a neglected Liverpool poet.
   By way of apologizing for what might seem an obtrusion upon the public
   of so long an episode, he courteously and feelingly introduces it by
   saying, that "the poem has now for several years been scarce, and is at
   present but little known; and hence a very small portion of it will no
   doubt be highly acceptable to the cultivated reader; especially as this
   noble epic is written with great felicity of expression and the sweetest
   delicacy of feeling."
   Once, but once only, an uncharitable thought crossed my mind, that the
   author of the Guide-Book might have been the author of the epic. But
   that was years ago; and I have never since permitted so uncharitable a
   reflection to insinuate itself into my mind.
   This epic, from the specimen before me, is composed in the old stately
   style, and rolls along commanding as a coach and four. It sings of
   Liverpool and the Mersey; its docks, and ships, and warehouses, and
   bales, and anchors; and after descanting upon the abject times, when
   "his noble waves, inglorious, Mersey rolled," the poet breaks forth like
   all Parnassus with:--
   "Now o'er the wondering world her name resounds, From northern climes to
   India's distant bounds--Where'er his shores the broad Atlantic waves;
   Where'er the Baltic rolls his wintry waves; Where'er the honored flood
   extends his tide, That clasps Sicilia like a favored bride. Greenland
   for her its bulky whale resigns, And temperate Gallia rears her generous
   vines: 'Midst warm Iberia citron orchards blow, And the ripe fruitage
   bends the laboring bough; In every clime her prosperous fleets are
   known, She makes the wealth of every clime her own."
   It also contains a delicately-curtained allusion to Mr. Roscoe:--
