   
      "And here R*s*o*, with genius all his own, New tracks explores,
       and all before unknown?"
   Indeed, both the anonymous author of the Guide-Book, and the gifted
   bard of the Mersey, seem to have nourished the wannest appreciation
   of the fact, that to their beloved town Roscoe imparted a reputation
   which gracefully embellished its notoriety as a mere place of commerce.
   He is called the modern Guicciardini of the modern Florence, and his
   histories, translations, and Italian Lives, are spoken of with classical
   admiration.
   The first chapter begins in a methodical, business-like way, by
   informing the impatient reader of the precise latitude and longitude of
   Liverpool; so that, at the outset, there may be no misunderstanding on
   that head. It then goes on to give an account of the history and
   antiquities of the town, beginning with a record in the Doomsday-Book of
   William the Conqueror.
   Here, it must be sincerely confessed, however, that notwithstanding his
   numerous other merits, my favorite author betrays a want of the
   uttermost antiquarian and penetrating spirit, which would have scorned
   to stop in its researches at the reign of the Norman monarch, but would
   have pushed on resolutely through the dark ages, up to Moses, the man of
   Uz, and Adam; and finally established the fact beyond a doubt, that the
   soil of Liverpool was created with the creation.
   But, perhaps, one of the most curious passages in the chapter of
   antiquarian research, is the pious author's moralizing reflections upon
   an interesting fact he records: to wit, that in a.d. 1571, the
   inhabitants sent a memorial to Queen Elizabeth, praying relief under a
   subsidy, wherein they style themselves "her majesty's poor decayed town
   of Liverpool."
   As I now fix my gaze upon this faded and dilapidated old guide-book,
   bearing every token of the ravages of near half a century, and read how
   this piece of antiquity enlarges like a modern upon previous
   antiquities, I am forcibly reminded that the world is indeed growing
   old. And when I turn to the second chapter, "On the increase of the
   town, and number of inhabitants," and then skim over page after page
   throughout the volume, all filled with allusions to the immense grandeur
   of a place, which, since then, has more than quadrupled in population,
   opulence, and splendor, and whose present inhabitants must look back
   upon the period here spoken of with a swelling feeling of immeasurable
   superiority and pride, I am filled with a comical sadness at the vanity
   of all human exaltation. For the cope-stone of to-day is the corner-
   stone of tomorrow; and as St. Peter's church was built in great part
   of the ruins of old Rome, so in all our erections, however imposing,
   we but form quarries and supply ignoble materials for the grander domes
   of posterity.
   And even as this old guide-book boasts of the, to us, insignificant
   Liverpool of fifty years ago, the New York guidebooks are now vaunting
   of the magnitude of a town, whose future inhabitants, multitudinous as
   the pebbles on the beach, and girdled in with high walls and towers,
   flanking endless avenues of opulence and taste, will regard all our
   Broadways and Bowerys as but the paltry nucleus to their Nineveh. From
   far up the Hudson, beyond Harlem River, where the young saplings are now
   growing, that will overarch their lordly mansions with broad boughs,
   centuries old; they may send forth explorers to penetrate into the then
   obscure and smoky alleys of the Fifth Avenue and Fourteenth-street; and
   going still farther south, may exhume the present Doric Custom-house,
   and quote it as a proof that their high and mighty metropolis enjoyed a
   Hellenic antiquity.
   As I am extremely loth to omit giving a specimen of the dignified style
   of this "Picture of Liverpool," so different from the brief, pert, and
   unclerkly hand-books to Niagara and Buffalo of the present day, I shall
   now insert the chapter of antiquarian researches; especially as it is
   entertaining in itself, and affords much valuable, and perhaps rare
   information, which the reader may need, concerning the famous town, to
   which I made my first voyage. And I think that with regard to a matter,
   concerning which I myself am wholly ignorant, it is far better to quote
   my old friend verbatim, than to mince his substantial baron-of-beef of
   information into a flimsy ragout of my own; and so, pass it off as
   original. Yes, I will render unto my honored guide-book its due.
   But how can the printer's art so dim and mellow down the pages into a
   soft sunset yellow; and to the reader's eye, shed over the type all the
   pleasant associations which the original carries to me!
   No! by my father's sacred memory, and all sacred privacies of fond
   family reminiscences, I will not! I will not quote thee, old Morocco,
   before the cold face of the marble-hearted world; for your antiquities
   would only be skipped and dishonored by shallow-minded readers; and for
   me, I should be charged with swelling out my volume by plagiarizing from
   a guide-book-the most vulgar and ignominious of thefts!
   XXXI. WITH HIS PROSY OLD GUIDE-BOOK, HE TAKES A PROSY STROLL THROUGH THE
   TOWN
   When I left home, I took the green morocco guide-book along, supposing
   that from the great number of ships going to Liverpool, I would most
   probably ship on board of one of them, as the event itself proved.
   Great was my boyish delight at the prospect of visiting a place, the
   infallible clew to all whose intricacies I held in my hand.
   On the passage out I studied its pages a good deal. In the first place,
   I grounded myself thoroughly in the history and antiquities of the town,
   as set forth in the chapter I intended to quote. Then I mastered the
   columns of statistics, touching the advance of population; and pored
   over them, as I used to do over my multiplication-table. For I was
   determined to make the whole subject my own; and not be content with a
   mere smattering of the thing, as is too much the custom with most
   students of guide-books. Then I perused one by one the elaborate
   descriptions of public edifices, and scrupulously compared the text with
   the corresponding engraving, to see whether they corroborated each
   other. For be it known that, including the map, there were no less than
   seventeen plates in the work. And by often examining them, I had so
   impressed every column and cornice in my mind, that I had no doubt of
   recognizing the originals in a moment.
   In short, when I considered that my own father had used this very
   guide-book, and that thereby it had been thoroughly tested, and its
   fidelity proved beyond a peradventure; I could not but think that I was
   building myself up in an unerring knowledge of Liverpool; especially as
   I had familiarized myself with the map, and could turn sharp corners on
   it, with marvelous confidence and celerity.
   In imagination, as I lay in my berth on ship-board, I used to take
   pleasant afternoon rambles through the town; down St. James-street and
   up Great George's, stopping at various places of interest and
   attraction. I began to think I had been born in Liverpool, so familiar
   seemed all the features of the map. And though some of the streets there
   depicted were thickly involved, endlessly angular and crooked, like the
   map of Boston, in Massachusetts, yet, I made no doubt, that I could
   march through them in the darkest night, and even run for the most
   distant dock upon a pressing emergency.
