   
   Dear delusion!
   It never occurred to my boyish thoughts, that though a guide-book, fifty
   years old, might have done good service in its day, yet it would prove
   but a miserable cicerone to a modern. I little imagined that the
   Liverpool my father saw, was another Liverpool from that to which I, his
   son Wellingborough was sailing. No; these things never obtruded; so
   accustomed had I been to associate my old morocco guide-book with the
   town it described, that the bare thought of there being any discrepancy,
   never entered my mind.
   While we lay in the Mersey, before entering the dock, I got out my
   guide-book to see how the map would compare with the identical place
   itself. But they bore not the slightest resemblance. However, thinks I,
   this is owing to my taking a horizontal view, instead of a bird's-eye
   survey. So, never mind old guide-book, you, at least, are all right.
   But my faith received a severe shock that same evening, when the crew
   went ashore to supper, as I have previously related.
   The men stopped at a curious old tavern, near the Prince's Dock's walls;
   and having my guide-book in my pocket, I drew it forth to compare notes,
   when I found, that precisely upon the spot where I and my shipmates were
   standing, and a cherry-cheeked bar-maid was filling their glasses, my
   infallible old Morocco, in that very place, located a fort; adding, that
   it was well worth the intelligent stranger's while to visit it for the
   purpose of beholding the guard relieved in the evening.
   This was a staggerer; for how could a tavern be mistaken for a castle?
   and this was about the hour mentioned for the guard to turn out; yet not
   a red coat was to be seen. But for all this, I could not, for one small
   discrepancy, condemn the old family servant who had so faithfully served
   my own father before me; and when I learned that this tavern went by the
   name of "The Old Fort Tavern;" and when I was told that many of the old
   stones were yet in the walls, I almost completely exonerated my
   guide-book from the half-insinuated charge of misleading me.
   The next day was Sunday, and I had it all to myself; and now, thought I,
   my guide-book and I shall have a famous ramble up street and down lane,
   even unto the furthest limits of this Liverpool.
   I rose bright and early; from head to foot performed my ablutions "with
   Eastern scrupulosity," and I arrayed myself in my red shirt and
   shooting-jacket, and the sportsman's pantaloons; and crowned my entire
   man with the tarpaulin; so that from this curious combination of
   clothing, and particularly from my red shirt, I must have looked like a
   very strange compound indeed: three parts sportsman, and two soldier, to
   one of the sailor.
   My shipmates, of course, made merry at my appearance; but I heeded them
   not; and after breakfast, jumped ashore, full of brilliant
   anticipations.
   My gait was erect, and I was rather tall for my age; and that may have
   been the reason why, as I was rapidly walking along the dock, a drunken
   sailor passing, exclaimed, "Eyes right! quick step there!"
   Another fellow stopped me to know whether I was going fox-hunting; and
   one of the dock-police, stationed at the gates, after peeping out upon
   me from his sentry box, a snug little den, furnished with benches and
   newspapers, and hung round with storm jackets and oiled capes, issued
   forth in a great hurry, crossed my path as I was emerging into the
   street, and commanded me to halt! I obeyed; when scanning my appearance
   pertinaciously, he desired to know where I got that tarpaulin hat, not
   being able to account for the phenomenon of its roofing the head of a
   broken-down fox-hunter. But I pointed to my ship, which lay at no great
   distance; when remarking from my voice that I was a Yankee, this
   faithful functionary permitted me to pass.
   It must be known that the police stationed at the gates of the docks are
   extremely observant of strangers going out; as many thefts are
   perpetrated on board the ships; and if they chance to see any thing
   suspicious, they probe into it without mercy. Thus, the old men who buy
   "shakings," and rubbish from vessels, must turn their bags wrong side
   out before the police, ere they are allowed to go outside the walls. And
   often they will search a suspicious looking fellow's clothes, even if he
   be a very thin man, with attenuated and almost imperceptible pockets.
   But where was I going?
   I will tell. My intention was in the first place, to visit Riddough's
   Hotel, where my father had stopped, more than thirty years before: and
   then, with the map in my hand, follow him through all the town,
   according to the dotted lines in the diagram. For thus would I be
   performing a filial pilgrimage to spots which would be hallowed in my
   eyes.
   At last, when I found myself going down Old Hall-street toward
   Lord-street, where the hotel was situated, according to my authority;
   and when, taking out my map, I found that Old Hall-street was marked
   there, through its whole extent with my father's pen; a thousand fond,
   affectionate emotions rushed around my heart.
   Yes, in this very street, thought I, nay, on this very flagging my
   father walked. Then I almost wept, when I looked down on my sorry
   apparel, and marked how the people regarded me; the men staring at so
   grotesque a young stranger, and the old ladies, in beaver hats and
   ruffles, crossing the walk a little to shun me.
   How differently my father must have appeared; perhaps in a blue coat,
   buff vest, and Hessian boots. And little did he think, that a son of his
   would ever visit Liverpool as a poor friendless sailor-boy. But I was
   not born then: no, when he walked this flagging, I was not so much as
   thought of; I was not included in the census of the universe. My own
   father did not know me then; and had never seen, or heard, or so much as
   dreamed of me. And that thought had a touch of sadness to me; for if it
   had certainly been, that my own parent, at one time, never cast a
   thought upon me, how might it be with me hereafter? Poor, poor
   Wellingborough! thought I, miserable boy! you are indeed friendless and
   forlorn. Here you wander a stranger in a strange town, and the very
   thought of your father's having been here before you, but carries with
   it the reflection that, he then knew you not, nor cared for you one
   whit.
   But dispelling these dismal reflections as well as I could, I pushed on
   my way, till I got to Chapel-street, which I crossed; and then, going
   under a cloister-like arch of stone, whose gloom and narrowness
   delighted me, and filled my Yankee soul with romantic thoughts of old
   Abbeys and Minsters, I emerged into the fine quadrangle of the
   Merchants' Exchange.
   There, leaning against the colonnade, I took out my map, and traced my
   father right across Chapel-street, and actually through the very arch at
   my back, into the paved square where I stood.
   So vivid was now the impression of his having been here, and so narrow
   the passage from which he had emerged, that I felt like running on, and
   overtaking him around the Town Hall adjoining, at the head of
   Castle-street. But I soon checked myself, when remembering that he had
   gone whither no son's search could find him in this world. And then I
   thought of all that must have happened to him since he paced through
   that arch. What trials and troubles he had encountered; how he had been
   shaken by many storms of adversity, and at last died a bankrupt. I
   looked at my own sorry garb, and had much ado to keep from tears.
