   
   But I rallied, and gazed round at the sculptured stonework, and turned
   to my guide-book, and looked at the print of the spot. It was correct to
   a pillar; but wanted the central ornament of the quadrangle. This,
   however, was but a slight subsequent erection, which ought not to
   militate against the general character of my friend for
   comprehensiveness.
   The ornament in question is a group of statuary in bronze, elevated upon
   a marble pedestal and basement, representing Lord Nelson expiring in the
   arms of Victory. One foot rests on a rolling foe, and the other on a
   cannon. Victory is dropping a wreath on the dying admiral's brow; while
   Death, under the similitude of a hideous skeleton, is insinuating his
   bony hand under the hero's robe, and groping after his heart. A very
   striking design, and true to the imagination; I never could look at
   Death without a shudder.
   At uniform intervals round the base of the pedestal, four naked figures
   in chains, somewhat larger than life, are seated in various attitudes of
   humiliation and despair. One has his leg recklessly thrown over his
   knee, and his head bowed over, as if he had given up all hope of ever
   feeling better. Another has his head buried in despondency, and no doubt
   looks mournfully out of his eyes, but as his face was averted at the
   time, I could not catch the expression. These woe-begone figures of
   captives are emblematic of Nelson's principal victories; but I never
   could look at their swarthy limbs and manacles, without being
   involuntarily reminded of four African slaves in the market-place.
   And my thoughts would revert to Virginia and Carolina; and also to the
   historical fact, that the African slave-trade once constituted the
   principal commerce of Liverpool; and that the prosperity of the town was
   once supposed to have been indissolubly linked to its prosecution. And I
   remembered that my father had often spoken to gentlemen visiting our
   house in New York, of the unhappiness that the discussion of the
   abolition of this trade had occasioned in Liverpool; that the struggle
   between sordid interest and humanity had made sad havoc at the
   fire-sides of the merchants; estranged sons from sires; and even
   separated husband from wife. And my thoughts reverted to my father's
   friend, the good and great Roscoe, the intrepid enemy of the trade; who
   in every way exerted his fine talents toward its suppression; writing a
   poem ("the Wrongs of Africa"), several pamphlets; and in his place in
   Parliament, he delivered a speech against it, which, as coming from a
   member for Liverpool, was supposed to have turned many votes, and had no
   small share in the triumph of sound policy and humanity that ensued.
   How this group of statuary affected me, may be inferred from the fact,
   that I never went through Chapel-street without going through the little
   arch to look at it again. And there, night or day, I was sure to find
   Lord Nelson still falling back; Victory's wreath still hovering over his
   swordpoint; and Death grim and grasping as ever; while the four bronze
   captives still lamented their captivity.
   Now, as I lingered about the railing of the statuary, on the Sunday I
   have mentioned, I noticed several persons going in and out of an
   apartment, opening from the basement under the colonnade; and,
   advancing, I perceived that this was a news-room, full of files of
   papers. My love of literature prompted me to open the door and step in;
   but a glance at my soiled shooting-jacket prompted a dignified looking
   personage to step up and shut the door in my face. I deliberated a
   minute what I should do to him; and at last resolutely determined to let
   him alone, and pass on; which I did; going down Castle-street (so called
   from a castle which once stood there, said my guide-book), and turning
   down into Lord.
   Arrived at the foot of the latter street, I in vain looked round for the
   hotel. How serious a disappointment was this may well be imagined, when
   it is considered that I was all eagerness to behold the very house at
   which my father stopped; where he slept and dined, smoked his cigar,
   opened his letters, and read the papers. I inquired of some gentlemen
   and ladies where the missing hotel was; but they only stared and passed
   on; until I met a mechanic, apparently, who very civilly stopped to hear
   my questions and give me an answer.
   "Riddough's Hotel?" said he, "upon my word, I think I have heard of such
   a place; let me see--yes, yes--that was the hotel where my father broke
   his arm, helping to pull down the walls. My lad, you surely can't be
   inquiring for Riddough's Hotel! What do you want to find there?"
   "Oh! nothing," I replied, "I am much obliged for your information"--and
   away I walked.
   Then, indeed, a new light broke in upon me concerning my guide-book; and
   all my previous dim suspicions were almost confirmed. It was nearly half
   a century behind the age! and no more fit to guide me about the town,
   than the map of Pompeii.
   It was a sad, a solemn, and a most melancholy thought. The book on which
   I had so much relied; the book in the old morocco cover; the book with
   the cocked-hat corners; the book full of fine old family associations;
   the book with seventeen plates, executed in the highest style of art;
   this precious book was next to useless. Yes, the thing that had guided
   the father, could not guide the son. And I sat down on a shop step, and
   gave loose to meditation.
   Here, now, oh, Wellingborough, thought I, learn a lesson, and never
   forget it. This world, my boy, is a moving world; its Riddough's Hotels
   are forever being pulled down; it never stands still; and its sands are
   forever shifting. This very harbor of Liverpool is gradually filling up,
   they say; and who knows what your son (if you ever have one) may behold,
   when he comes to visit Liverpool, as long after you as you come after
   his grandfather. And, Wellingborough, as your father's guidebook is no
   guide for you, neither would yours (could you afford to buy a modern one
   to-day) be a true guide to those who come after you. Guide-books,
   Wellingborough, are the least reliable books in all literature; and
   nearly all literature, in one sense, is made up of guide-books. Old ones
   tell us the ways our fathers went, through the thoroughfares and courts
   of old; but how few of those former places can their posterity trace,
   amid avenues of modern erections; to how few is the old guide-book now a
   clew! Every age makes its own guidebooks, and the old ones are used for
   waste paper. But there is one Holy Guide-Book, Wellingborough, that will
   never lead you astray, if you but follow it aright; and some noble
   monuments that remain, though the pyramids crumble.
   But though I rose from the door-step a sadder and a wiser boy, and
   though my guide-book had been stripped of its reputation for
   infallibility, I did not treat with contumely or disdain, those sacred
   pages which had once been a beacon to my sire.
   No.--Poor old guide-book, thought I, tenderly stroking its back, and
   smoothing the dog-ears with reverence; I will not use you with despite,
   old Morocco! and you will yet prove a trusty conductor through many old
   streets in the old parts of this town; even if you are at fault, now and
   then, concerning a Riddough's Hotel, or some other forgotten thing of
   the past. As I fondly glanced over the leaves, like one who loves more
   than he chides, my eye lighted upon a passage concerning "The Old Dock,"
   which much aroused my curiosity. I determined to see the place without
   delay: and walking on, in what I presumed to be the right direction, at
   last found myself before a spacious and splendid pile of sculptured
   brown stone; and entering the porch, perceived from incontrovertible
   tokens that it must be the Custom-house. After admiring it awhile, I
   took out my guide-book again; and what was my amazement at discovering
   that, according to its authority, I was entirely mistaken with regard to
   this Custom-house; for precisely where I stood, "The Old Dock" must be
   standing, and reading on concerning it, I met with this very apposite
   passage:--"The first idea that strikes the stranger in coming to this
   dock, is the singularity of so great a number of ships afloat in the
   very heart of the town, without discovering any connection with the
   sea."
   Here, now, was a poser! Old Morocco confessed that there was a good deal
   of "singularity" about the thing; nor did he pretend to deny that it
   was, without question, amazing, that this fabulous dock should seem to
   have no connection with the sea! However, the same author went on to
   say, that the "astonished stranger must suspend his wonder for awhile,
   and turn to the left." But, right or left, no place answering to the
   description was to be seen.
   This was too confounding altogether, and not to be easily accounted for,
   even by making ordinary allowances for the growth and general
   improvement of the town in the course of years. So, guide-book in hand,
   I accosted a policeman standing by, and begged him to tell me whether he
   was acquainted with any place in that neighborhood called the "Old
   Dock." The man looked at me wonderingly at first, and then seeing I was
   apparently sane, and quite civil into the bargain, he whipped his
   well-polished boot with his rattan, pulled up his silver-laced
   coat-collar, and initiated me into a knowledge of the following facts.
   It seems that in this place originally stood the "pool," from which the
   town borrows a part of its name, and which originally wound round the
   greater part of the old settlements; that this pool was made into the
   "Old Dock," for the benefit of the shipping; but that, years ago, it had
   been filled up, and furnished the site for the Custom-house before me.
   I now eyed the spot with a feeling somewhat akin to the Eastern traveler
   standing on the brink of the Dead Sea. For here the doom of Gomorrah
   seemed reversed, and a lake had been converted into substantial stone
   and mortar.
   Well, well, Wellingborough, thought I, you had better put the book into
   your pocket, and carry it home to the Society of Antiquaries; it is
   several thousand leagues and odd furlongs behind the march of
   improvement. Smell its old morocco binding, Wellingborough; does it not
   smell somewhat mummy-ish? Does it not remind you of Cheops and the
   Catacombs? I tell you it was written before the lost books of Livy, and
   is cousin-german to that irrecoverably departed volume, entitled, "The
   Wars of the Lord" quoted by Moses in the Pentateuch. Put it up,
   Wellingborough, put it up, my dear friend; and hereafter follow your
   nose throughout Liverpool; it will stick to you through thick and thin:
   and be your ship's mainmast and St. George's spire your landmarks.
   No!--And again I rubbed its back softly, and gently adjusted a loose
   leaf: No, no, I'll not give you up yet. Forth, old Morocco! and lead me
   in sight of tie venerable Abbey of Birkenhead; and let these eager eyes
   behold the mansion once occupied by the old earls of Derby!
