   
   For the book discoursed of both places, and told how the Abbey was on
   the Cheshire shore, full in view from a point on the Lancashire side,
   covered over with ivy, and brilliant with moss! And how the house of the
   noble Derby's was now a common jail of the town; and how that
   circumstance was full of suggestions, and pregnant with wisdom!
   But, alas! I never saw the Abbey; at least none was in sight from the
   water: and as for the house of the earls, I never saw that.
   Ah me, and ten times alas! am I to visit old England in vain? in the
   land of Thomas-a-Becket and stout John of Gaunt, not to catch the least
   glimpse of priory or castle? Is there nothing in all the British empire
   but these smoky ranges of old shops and warehouses? is Liverpool but a
   brick-kiln? Why, no buildings here look so ancient as the old
   gable-pointed mansion of my maternal grandfather at home, whose bricks
   were brought from Holland long before the revolutionary war! Tis a
   deceit--a gull--a sham--a hoax! This boasted England is no older than the
   State of New York: if it is, show me the proofs--point out the vouchers.
   Where's the tower of Julius Caesar? Where's the Roman wall? Show me
   Stonehenge!
   But, Wellingborough, I remonstrated with myself, you are only in
   Liverpool; the old monuments lie to the north, south, east, and west of
   you; you are but a sailor-boy, and you can not expect to be a great
   tourist, and visit the antiquities, in that preposterous shooting-jacket
   of yours. Indeed, you can not, my boy.
   True, true--that's it. I am not the traveler my father was. I am only a
   common-carrier across the Atlantic.
   After a weary day's walk, I at last arrived at the sign of the Baltimore
   Clipper to supper; and Handsome Mary poured me out a brimmer of tea, in
   which, for the time, I drowned all my melancholy.
   XXXII. THE DOCKS
   For more than six weeks, the ship Highlander lay in Prince's Dock; and
   during that time, besides making observations upon things immediately
   around me, I made sundry excursions to the neighboring docks, for I
   never tired of admiring them.
   Previous to this, having only seen the miserable wooden wharves, and
   slip-shod, shambling piers of New York, the sight of these mighty docks
   filled my young mind with wonder and delight. In New York, to be sure, I
   could not but be struck with the long line of shipping, and tangled
   thicket of masts along the East River; yet, my admiration had been much
   abated by those irregular, unsightly wharves, which, I am sure, are a
   reproach and disgrace to the city that tolerates them.
   Whereas, in Liverpool, I beheld long China walls of masonry; vast piers
   of stone; and a succession of granite-rimmed docks, completely inclosed,
   and many of them communicating, which almost recalled to mind the great
   American chain of lakes: Ontario, Erie, St. Clair, Huron, Michigan, and
   Superior. The extent and solidity of these structures, seemed equal to
   what I had read of the old Pyramids of Egypt.
   Liverpool may justly claim to have originated the model of the "Wet
   Dock," so called, of the present day; and every thing that is connected
   with its design, construction, regulation, and improvement. Even London
   was induced to copy after Liverpool, and Havre followed her example. In
   magnitude, cost, and durability, the docks of Liverpool, even at the
   present day surpass all others in the world.
   The first dock built by the town was the "Old Dock," alluded to in my
   Sunday stroll with my guide-book. This was erected in 1710, since which
   period has gradually arisen that long line of dock-masonry, now flanking
   the Liverpool side of the Mersey.
   For miles you may walk along that river-side, passing dock after dock,
   like a chain of immense fortresses:--Prince's, George's, Salt-House,
   Clarence, Brunswick, Trafalgar, King's, Queen's, and many more.
   In a spirit of patriotic gratitude to those naval heroes, who by their
   valor did so much to protect the commerce of Britain, in which Liverpool
   held so large a stake; the town, long since, bestowed upon its more
   modern streets, certain illustrious names, that Broadway might be proud
   of:--Duncan, Nelson, Rodney, St. Vincent, Nile.
   But it is a pity, I think, that they had not bestowed these noble names
   upon their noble docks; so that they might have been as a rank and file
   of most fit monuments to perpetuate the names of the heroes, in
   connection with the commerce they defended.
   And how much better would such stirring monuments be; full of life and
   commotion; than hermit obelisks of Luxor, and idle towers of stone;
   which, useless to the world in themselves, vainly hope to eternize a
   name, by having it carved, solitary and alone, in their granite. Such
   monuments are cenotaphs indeed; founded far away from the true body of
   the fame of the hero; who, if he be truly a hero, must still be linked
   with the living interests of his race; for the true fame is something
   free, easy, social, and companionable. They are but tomb-stones, that
   commemorate his death, but celebrate not his Me. It is well enough that
   over the inglorious and thrice miserable grave of a Dives, some vast
   marble column should be reared, recording the fact of his having lived
   and died; for such records are indispensable to preserve his shrunken
   memory among men; though that memory must soon crumble away with the
   marble, and mix with the stagnant oblivion of the mob. But to build such
   a pompous vanity over the remains of a hero, is a slur upon his fame,
   and an insult to his ghost. And more enduring monuments are built in the
   closet with the letters of the alphabet, than even Cheops himself could
   have founded, with all Egypt and Nubia for his quarry.
