   
   Among the few docks mentioned above, occur the names of the King's and
   Queens. At the time, they often reminded me of the two principal streets
   in the village I came from in America, which streets once rejoiced in
   the same royal appellations. But they had been christened previous to
   the Declaration of Independence; and some years after, in a fever of
   freedom, they were abolished, at an enthusiastic town-meeting, where
   King George and his lady were solemnly declared unworthy of being
   immortalized by the village of L--. A country antiquary once told me,
   that a committee of two barbers were deputed to write and inform the
   distracted old gentleman of the fact.
   As the description of any one of these Liverpool docks will pretty much
   answer for all, I will here endeavor to give some account of Prince's
   Dock, where the Highlander rested after her passage across the Atlantic.
   This dock, of comparatively recent construction, is perhaps the largest
   of all, and is well known to American sailors, from the fact, that it is
   mostly frequented by the American ship-, ping. Here lie the noble New
   York packets, which at home are found at the foot of Wall-street; and
   here lie the Mobile and Savannah cotton ships and traders.
   This dock was built like the others, mostly upon the bed of the river,
   the earth and rock having been laboriously scooped out, and solidified
   again as materials for the quays and piers. From the river, Prince's
   Dock is protected by a long pier of masonry, surmounted by a massive
   wall; and on the side next the town, it is bounded by similar walls, one
   of which runs along a thoroughfare. The whole space thus inclosed forms
   an oblong, and may, at a guess, be presumed to comprise about fifteen or
   twenty acres; but as I had not the rod of a surveyor when I took it in,
   I will not be certain.
   The area of the dock itself, exclusive of the inclosed quays surrounding
   it, may be estimated at, say, ten acres. Access to the interior from the
   streets is had through several gateways; so that, upon their being
   closed, the whole dock is shut up like a house. From the river, the
   entrance is through a water-gate, and ingress to ships is only to be
   had, when the level of the dock coincides with that of the river; that
   is, about the time of high tide, as the level of the dock is always at
   that mark. So that when it is low tide in the river, the keels of the
   ships inclosed by the quays are elevated more than twenty feet above
   those of the vessels in the stream. This, of course, produces a striking
   effect to a stranger, to see hundreds of immense ships floating high
   aloft in the heart of a mass of masonry.
   Prince's Dock is generally so filled with shipping, that the entrance of
   a new-comer is apt to occasion a universal stir among all the older
   occupants. The dock-masters, whose authority is declared by tin signs
   worn conspicuously over their hats, mount the poops and forecastles of
   the various vessels, and hail the surrounding strangers in all
   directions:--"Highlander ahoy! Cast off your bowline, and sheer
   alongside the Neptune!"--"Neptune ahoy! get out a stern-line, and sheer
   alongside the Trident!"--"Trident ahoy! get out a bowline, and drop
   astern of the Undaunted!" And so it runs round like a shock of
   electricity; touch one, and you touch all. This kind of work irritates
   and exasperates the sailors to the last degree; but it is only one of
   the unavoidable inconveniences of inclosed docks, which are outweighed
   by innumerable advantages.
   Just without the water-gate, is a basin, always connecting with the open
   river, through a narrow entrance between pierheads. This basin forms a
   sort of ante-chamber to the dock itself, where vessels lie waiting their
   turn to enter. During a storm, the necessity of this basin is obvious;
   for it would be impossible to "dock" a ship under full headway from a
   voyage across the ocean. From the turbulent waves, she first glides into
   the ante-chamber between the pier-heads and from thence into the docks.
   Concerning the cost of the docks, I can only state, that the King's
   Dock, comprehending but a comparatively small area, was completed at an
   expense of some £20,000.
   Our old ship-keeper, a Liverpool man by birth, who had long followed the
   seas, related a curious story concerning this dock. One of the ships
   which carried over troops from England to Ireland in King William's war,
   in 1688, entered the King's Dock on the first day of its being opened in
   1788, after an interval of just one century. She was a dark little brig,
   called the Port-a-Ferry. And probably, as her timbers must have been
   frequently renewed in the course of a hundred years, the name alone
   could have been all that was left of her at the time. A paved area, very
   wide, is included within the walls; and along the edge of the quays are
   ranges of iron sheds, intended as a temporary shelter for the goods
   unladed from the shipping. Nothing can exceed the bustle and activity
   displayed along these quays during the day; bales, crates, boxes, and
   cases are being tumbled about by thousands of laborers; trucks are
   corning and going; dock-masters are shouting; sailors of all nations are
   singing out at their ropes; and all this commotion is greatly increased
   by the resoundings from the lofty walls that hem in the din.
   XXXIII. THE SALT-DROGHERS, AND GERMAN EMIGRANT SHIPS
   Surrounded by its broad belt of masonry, each Liverpool dock is a walled
   town, full of life and commotion; or rather, it is a small archipelago,
   an epitome of the world, where all the nations of Christendom, and even
   those of Heathendom, are represented. For, in itself, each ship is an
   island, a floating colony of the tribe to which it belongs.
   Here are brought together the remotest limits of the earth; and in the
   collective spars and timbers of these ships, all the forests of the
   globe are represented, as in a grand parliament of masts. Canada and New
   Zealand send their pines; America her live oak; India her teak; Norway
   her spruce; and the Right Honorable Mahogany, member for Honduras and
   Cam-peachy, is seen at his post by the wheel. Here, under the beneficent
   sway of the Genius of Commerce, all climes and countries embrace; and
   yard-arm touches yard-arm in brotherly love.
   A Liverpool dock is a grand caravansary inn, and hotel, on the spacious
   and liberal plan of the Astor House. Here ships are lodged at a moderate
   charge, and payment is not demanded till the time of departure. Here
   they are comfortably housed and provided for; sheltered from all
   weathers and secured from all calamities. For I can hardly credit a
   story I have heard, that sometimes, in heavy gales, ships lying in the
   very middle of the docks have lost their top-gallant-masts. Whatever the
   toils and hardships encountered on the voyage, whether they come from
   Iceland or the coast of New Guinea, here their sufferings are ended, and
   they take their ease in their watery inn.
   I know not how many hours I spent in gazing at the shipping in Prince's
   Dock, and speculating concerning their past voyages and future prospects
   in life. Some had just arrived from the most distant ports, worn,
   battered, and disabled; others were all a-taunt-o--spruce, gay, and
   brilliant, in readiness for sea.
   Every day the Highlander had some new neighbor. A black brig from
   Glasgow, with its crew of sober Scotch caps, and its staid, thrifty-
   looking skipper, would be replaced by a jovial French hermaphrodite,
   its forecastle echoing with songs, and its quarter-deck elastic from
   much dancing.
   On the other side, perhaps, a magnificent New York Liner, huge as a
   seventy-four, and suggesting the idea of a Mivart's or Delmonico's
   afloat, would give way to a Sidney emigrant ship, receiving on board its
   live freight of shepherds from the Grampians, ere long to be tending
   their flocks on the hills and downs of New Holland.
