   
   I was particularly pleased and tickled, with a multitude of little
   salt-droghers, rigged like sloops, and not much bigger than a pilot-
   boat, but with broad bows painted black, and carrying red sails, which
   looked as if they had been pickled and stained in a tan-yard. These
   little fellows were continually coming in with their cargoes for ships
   bound to America; and lying, five or six together, alongside of those
   lofty Yankee hulls, resembled a parcel of red ants about the carcass
   of a black buffalo.
   When loaded, these comical little craft are about level with the water;
   and frequently, when blowing fresh in the river, I have seen them flying
   through the foam with nothing visible but the mast and sail, and a man
   at the tiller; their entire cargo being snugly secured under hatches.
   It was diverting to observe the self-importance of the skipper of any of
   these diminutive vessels. He would give himself all the airs of an
   admiral on a three-decker's poop; and no doubt, thought quite as much of
   himself. And why not? What could Caesar want more? Though his craft was
   none of the largest, it was subject to him; and though his crew might
   only consist of himself; yet if he governed it well, he achieved a
   triumph, which the moralists of all ages have set above the victories of
   Alexander.
   These craft have each a little cabin, the prettiest, charming-est, most
   delightful little dog-hole in the world; not much bigger than an
   old-fashioned alcove for a bed. It is lighted by little round glasses
   placed in the deck; so that to the insider, the ceiling is like a small
   firmament twinkling with astral radiations. For tall men, nevertheless,
   the place is but ill-adapted; a sitting, or recumbent position being
   indispensable to an occupancy of the premises. Yet small, low, and
   narrow as the cabin is, somehow, it affords accommodations to the
   skipper and his family. Often, I used to watch the tidy good-wife,
   seated at the open little scuttle, like a woman at a cottage door,
   engaged in knitting socks for her husband; or perhaps, cutting his hair,
   as he kneeled before her. And once, while marveling how a couple like
   this found room to turn in, below, I was amazed by a noisy irruption of
   cherry-cheeked young tars from the scuttle, whence they came rolling
   forth, like so many curly spaniels from a kennel.
   Upon one occasion, I had the curiosity to go on board a salt-drogher,
   and fall into conversation with its skipper, a bachelor, who kept house
   all alone. I found him a very sociable, comfortable old fellow, who had
   an eye to having things cozy around him. It was in the evening; and he
   invited me down into his sanctum to supper; and there we sat together
   like a couple in a box at an oyster-cellar.
   "He, he," he chuckled, kneeling down before a fat, moist, little cask of
   beer, and holding a cocked-hat pitcher to the faucet--"You see, Jack, I
   keep every thing down here; and nice times I have by myself. Just before
   going to bed, it ain't bad to take a nightcap, you know; eh! Jack?--here
   now, smack your lips over that, my boy--have a pipe?--but stop, let's to
   supper first."
   So he went to a little locker, a fixture against the side, and groping
   in it awhile, and addressing it with--"What cheer here, what cheer?" at
   last produced a loaf, a small cheese, a bit of ham, and a jar of butter.
   And then placing a board on his lap, spread the table, the pitcher of
   beer in the center. "Why that's but a two legged table," said I, "let's
   make it four."
   So we divided the burthen, and supped merrily together on our knees.
   He was an old ruby of a fellow, his cheeks toasted brown; and it did my
   soul good, to see the froth of the beer bubbling at his mouth, and
   sparkling on his nut-brown beard. He looked so like a great mug of ale,
   that I almost felt like taking him by the neck and pouring him out.
   "Now Jack," said he, when supper was over, "now Jack, my boy, do you
   smoke?--Well then, load away." And he handed me a seal-skin pouch of
   tobacco and a pipe. We sat smoking together in this little sea-cabinet
   of his, till it began to look much like a state-room in Tophet; and
   notwithstanding my host's rubicund nose, I could hardly see him for the
   fog.
   "He, he, my boy," then said he--"I don't never have any bugs here, I tell
   ye: I smokes 'em all out every night before going to bed."
   "And where may you sleep?" said I, looking round, and seeing no sign of
   a bed.
   "Sleep?" says he, "why I sleep in my jacket, that's the best
   counterpane; and I use my head for a pillow. He-he, funny, ain't it?"
   "Very funny," says I.
   "Have some more ale?" says he; "plenty more." "No more, thank you," says
   I; "I guess I'll go;" for what with the tobacco-smoke and the ale, I
   began to feel like breathing fresh air. Besides, my conscience smote me
   for thus freely indulging in the pleasures of the table.
   "Now, don't go," said he; "don't go, my boy; don't go out into the damp;
   take an old Christian's advice," laying his hand on my shoulder; "it
   won't do. You see, by going out now, you'll shake off the ale, and get
   broad awake again; but if you stay here, you'll soon be dropping off for
   a nice little nap."
   But notwithstanding these inducements, I shook my host's hand and
   departed. There was hardly any thing I witnessed in the docks that
   interested me more than the German emigrants who come on board the large
   New York ships several days before their sailing, to make every thing
   comfortable ere starting. Old men, tottering with age, and little
   infants in arms; laughing girls in bright-buttoned bodices, and astute,
   middle-aged men with pictured pipes in their mouths, would be seen
   mingling together in crowds of five, six, and seven or eight hundred in
   one ship.
   Every evening these countrymen of Luther and Melancthon gathered on the
   forecastle to sing and pray. And it was exalting to listen to their fine
   ringing anthems, reverberating among the crowded shipping, and
   rebounding from the lofty walls of the docks. Shut your eyes, and you
   would think you were in a cathedral.
   They keep up this custom at sea; and every night, in the dog-watch, sing
   the songs of Zion to the roll of the great ocean-organ: a pious custom
   of a devout race, who thus send over their hallelujahs before them, as
   they hie to the land of the stranger.
   And among these sober Germans, my country counts the most orderly and
   valuable of her foreign population. It is they who have swelled the
   census of her Northwestern States; and transferring their ploughs from
   the hills of Transylvania to the prairies of Wisconsin; and sowing the
   wheat of the Rhine on the banks of the Ohio, raise the grain, that, a
   hundred fold increased, may return to their kinsmen in Europe.
