   
   There is something in the contemplation of the mode in which America has
   been settled, that, in a noble breast, should forever extinguish the
   prejudices of national dislikes. Settled by the people of all nations,
   all nations may claim her for their own. You can not spill a drop of
   American blood without spilling the blood of the whole world. Be he
   Englishman, Frenchman, German, Dane, or Scot; the European who scoffs at
   an American, calls his own brother Raca, and stands in danger of the
   judgment. We are not a narrow tribe of men, with a bigoted Hebrew
   nationality--whose blood has been debased in the attempt to ennoble it,
   by maintaining an exclusive succession among ourselves. No: our blood is
   as the flood of the Amazon, made up of a thousand noble currents all
   pouring into one. We are not a nation, so much as a world; for unless we
   may claim all the world for our sire, like Melchisedec, we are without
   father or mother.
   For who was our father and our mother? Or can we point to any Romulus
   and Remus for our founders? Our ancestry is lost in the universal
   paternity; and Caesar and Alfred, St. Paul and Luther, and Homer and
   Shakespeare are as much ours as Washington, who is as much the world's
   as our own. We are the heirs of all time, and with all nations we divide
   our inheritance. On this Western Hemisphere all tribes and people are
   forming into one federated whole; and there is a future which shall see
   the estranged children of Adam restored as to the old hearthstone in
   Eden.
   The other world beyond this, which was longed for by the devout before
   Columbus' time, was found in the New; and the deep-sea-lead, that first
   struck these soundings, brought up the soil of Earth's Paradise. Not a
   Paradise then, or now; but to be made so, at God's good pleasure, and in
   the fullness and mellowness of time. The seed is sown, and the harvest
   must come; and our children's children, on the world's jubilee morning,
   shall all go with their sickles to the reaping. Then shall the curse of
   Babel be revoked, a new Pentecost come, and the language they shall
   speak shall be the language of Britain. Frenchmen, and Danes, and Scots;
   and the dwellers on the shores of the Mediterranean, and in the regions
   round about; Italians, and Indians, and Moors; there shall appear unto
   them cloven tongues as of fire.
   XXXIV. THE IRRAWADDY
   Among the various ships lying in Prince's Dock, none interested me more
   than the Irrawaddy, of Bombay, a "country ship," which is the name
   bestowed by Europeans upon the large native vessels of India. Forty
   years ago, these merchantmen were nearly the largest in the world; and
   they still exceed the generality. They are built of the celebrated teak
   wood, the oak of the East, or in Eastern phrase, "the King of the Oaks."
   The Irrawaddy had just arrived from Hindostan, with a cargo of cotton.
   She was manned by forty or fifty Lascars, the native seamen of India,
   who seemed to be immediately governed by a countryman of theirs of a
   higher caste. While his inferiors went about in strips of white linen,
   this dignitary was arrayed in a red army-coat, brilliant with gold lace,
   a cocked hat, and drawn sword. But the general effect was quite spoiled
   by his bare feet.
   In discharging the cargo, his business seemed to consist in flagellating
   the crew with the flat of his saber, an exercise in which long practice
   had made him exceedingly expert. The poor fellows jumped away with the
   tackle-rope, elastic as cats.
   One Sunday, I went aboard of the Irrawaddy, when this oriental usher
   accosted me at the gangway, with his sword at my throat. I gently pushed
   it aside, making a sign expressive of the pacific character of my
   motives in paying a visit to the ship. Whereupon he very considerately
   let me pass.
   I thought I was in Pegu, so strangely woody was the smell of the
   dark-colored timbers, whose odor was heightened by the rigging of kayar,
   or cocoa-nut fiber.
   The Lascars were on the forecastle-deck. Among them were Malays,
   Mahrattas, Burmese, Siamese, and Cingalese. They were seated round
   "kids" full of rice, from which, according to their invariable custom,
   they helped themselves with one hand, the other being reserved for quite
   another purpose. They were chattering like magpies in Hindostanee, but I
   found that several of them could also speak very good English. They were
   a small-limbed, wiry, tawny set; and I was informed made excellent
   seamen, though ill adapted to stand the hardships of northern voyaging.
   They told me that seven of their number had died on the passage from
   Bombay; two or three after crossing the Tropic of Cancer, and the rest
   met their fate in the Channel, where the ship had been tost about in
   violent seas, attended with cold rains, peculiar to that vicinity. Two
   more had been lost overboard from the flying-jib-boom.
   I was condoling with a young English cabin-boy on board, upon the loss
   of these poor fellows, when he said it was their own fault; they would
   never wear monkey-jackets, but clung to their thin India robes, even in
   the bitterest weather. He talked about them much as a farmer would about
   the loss of so many sheep by the murrain.
   The captain of the vessel was an Englishman, as were also the three
   mates, master and boatswain. These officers lived astern in the cabin,
   where every Sunday they read the Church of England's prayers, while the
   heathen at the other end of the ship were left to their false gods and
   idols. And thus, with Christianity on the quarter-deck, and paganism on
   the forecastle, the Irrawaddy ploughed the sea.
   As if to symbolize this state of things, the "fancy piece" astern
   comprised, among numerous other carved decorations, a cross and a miter;
   while forward, on the bows, was a sort of devil for a figure-head--a
   dragon-shaped creature, with a fiery red mouth, and a switchy-looking
   tail.
   After her cargo was discharged, which was done "to the sound of flutes
   and soft recorders"--something as work is done in the navy to the music
   of the boatswain's pipe--the Lascars were set to "stripping the ship"
   that is, to sending down all her spars and ropes.
   At this time, she lay alongside of us, and the Babel on board almost
   drowned our own voices. In nothing but their girdles, the Lascars hopped
   about aloft, chattering like so many monkeys; but, nevertheless, showing
   much dexterity and seamanship in their manner of doing their work.
   Every Sunday, crowds of well-dressed people came down to the dock to see
   this singular ship; many of them perched themselves in the shrouds of
   the neighboring craft, much to the wrath of Captain Riga, who left
   strict orders with our old ship-keeper, to drive all strangers out of
   the Highlander's rigging. It was amusing at these times, to watch the
   old women with umbrellas, who stood on the quay staring at the Lascars,
   even when they desired to be private. These inquisitive old ladies
   seemed to regard the strange sailors as a species of wild animal, whom
   they might gaze at with as much impunity, as at leopards in the
   Zoological Gardens.
