   
   One night I was returning to the ship, when just as I was passing
   through the Dock Gate, I noticed a white figure squatting against the
   wall outside. It proved to be one of the Lascars who was smoking, as the
   regulations of the docks prohibit his indulging this luxury on board his
   vessel. Struck with the curious fashion of his pipe, and the odor from
   it, I inquired what he was smoking; he replied "Joggerry," which is a
   species of weed, used in place of tobacco.
   Finding that he spoke good English, and was quite communicative, like
   most smokers, I sat down by Dattabdool-mans, as he called himself, and
   we fell into conversation. So instructive was his discourse, that when
   we parted, I had considerably added to my stock of knowledge. Indeed, it
   is a Godsend to fall in with a fellow like this. He knows things you
   never dreamed of; his experiences are like a man from the moon--wholly
   strange, a new revelation. If you want to learn romance, or gain an
   insight into things quaint, curious, .and marvelous, drop your books of
   travel, and take a stroll along the docks of a great commercial port.
   Ten to one, you will encounter Crusoe himself among the crowds of
   mariners from all parts of the globe.
   But this is no place for making mention of all the subjects upon which I
   and my Lascar friend mostly discoursed; I will only try to give his
   account of the teakwood and kayar rope, concerning which things I was
   curious, and sought information.
   The "sagoon" as he called the tree which produces the teak, grows in its
   greatest excellence among the mountains of Malabar, whence large
   quantities are sent to Bombay for shipbuilding. He also spoke of another
   kind of wood, the "sissor," which supplies most of the "shin-logs," or
   "knees," and crooked timbers in the country ships. The sagoon grows to
   an immense size; sometimes there is fifty feet of trunk, three feet
   through, before a single bough is put forth. Its leaves are very large;
   and to convey some idea of them, my Lascar likened them to elephants'
   ears. He said a purple dye was extracted from them, for the purpose of
   staining cottons and silks. The wood is specifically heavier than water;
   it is easily worked, and extremely strong and durable. But its chief
   merit lies in resisting the action of the salt water, and the attacks of
   insects; which resistance is caused by its containing a resinous oil
   called "poonja."
   To my surprise, he informed me that the Irrawaddy was wholly built by
   the native shipwrights of India, who, he modestly asserted, surpassed
   the European artisans.
   The rigging, also, was of native manufacture. As the kayar, of which it
   is composed, is now getting into use both in England and America, as
   well for ropes and rigging as for mats and rugs, my Lascar friend's
   account of it, joined to my own observations, may not be uninteresting.
   In India, it is prepared very much in the same way as in Polynesia. The
   cocoa-nut is gathered while the husk is still green, and but partially
   ripe; and this husk is removed by striking the nut forcibly, with both
   hands, upon a sharp-pointed stake, planted uprightly in the ground. In
   this way a boy will strip nearly fifteen hundred in a day. But the kayar
   is not made from the husk, as might be supposed, but from the rind of
   the nut; which, after being long soaked in water, is beaten with
   mallets, and rubbed together into fibers. After this being dried in the
   sun, you may spin it, just like hemp, or any similar substance. The
   fiber thus produced makes very strong and durable ropes, extremely well
   adapted, from their lightness and durability, for the running rigging of
   a ship; while the same causes, united with its great strength and
   buoyancy, render it very suitable for large cables and hawsers.
   But the elasticity of the kayar ill fits it for the shrouds and
   standing-rigging of a ship, which require to be comparatively firm.
   Hence, as the Irrawaddy's shrouds were all of this substance, the Lascar
   told me, they were continually setting up or slacking off her
   standing-rigging, according as the weather was cold or warm. And the
   loss of a foretopmast, between the tropics, in a squall, he attributed
   to this circumstance.
   After a stay of about two weeks, the Irrawaddy had her heavy Indian
   spars replaced with Canadian pine, and her kayar shrouds with hempen
   ones. She then mustered her pagans, and hoisted sail for London.
   XXXV. GALLIOTS, COAST-OF-GUINEA-MAN, AND FLOATING CHAPEL
   Another very curious craft often seen in the Liverpool docks, is the
   Dutch galliot, an old-fashioned looking gentleman, with hollow waist,
   high prow and stern, and which, seen lying among crowds of tight Yankee
   traders, and pert French brigantines, always reminded me of a cocked hat
   among modish beavers.
   The construction of the galliot has not altered for centuries; and the
   northern European nations, Danes and Dutch, still sail the salt seas in
   this flat-bottomed salt-cellar of a ship; although, in addition to
   these, they have vessels of a more modern kind.
   They seldom paint the galliot; but scrape and varnish all its planks and
   spars, so that all over it resembles the "bright side" or polished
   streak, usually banding round an American ship.
   Some of them are kept scrupulously neat and clean, and remind one of a
   well-scrubbed wooden platter, or an old oak table, upon which much wax
   and elbow vigor has been expended. Before the wind, they sail well; but
   on a bowline, owing to their broad hulls and flat bottoms, they make
   leeway at a sad rate.
   Every day, some strange vessel entered Prince's Dock; and hardly would I
   gaze my fill at some outlandish craft from Surat or the Levant, ere a
   still more outlandish one would absorb my attention.
   Among others, I remember, was a little brig from the Coast of Guinea. In
   appearance, she was the ideal of a slaver; low, black, clipper-built
   about the bows, and her decks in a state of most piratical disorder.
