   
   IV. HOW HE DISPOSED OF HIS FOWLING-PIECE
   Next day I went alone to the shipping office to sign the articles, and
   there I met a great crowd of sailors, who as soon as they found what I
   was after, began to tip the wink all round, and I overheard a fellow in
   a great flapping sou'wester cap say to another old tar in a shaggy
   monkey-jacket, "Twig his coat, d'ye see the buttons, that chap ain't
   going to sea in a merchantman, he's going to shoot whales. I say,
   maty--look here--how d'ye sell them big buttons by the pound?"
   "Give us one for a saucer, will ye?" said another.
   "Let the youngster alone," said a third. "Come here, my little boy, has
   your ma put up some sweetmeats for ye to take to sea?"
   They are all witty dogs, thought I to myself, trying to make the best of
   the matter, for I saw it would not do to resent what they said; they
   can't mean any harm, though they are certainly very impudent; so I tried
   to laugh off their banter, but as soon as ever I could, I put down my
   name and beat a retreat.
   On the morrow, the ship was advertised to sail. So the rest of that day
   I spent in preparations. After in vain trying to sell my fowling-piece
   for a fair price to chance customers, I was walking up Chatham-street
   with it, when a curly-headed little man with a dark oily face, and a
   hooked nose, like the pictures of Judas Iscariot, called to me from a
   strange-looking shop, with three gilded balk hanging over it.
   With a peculiar accent, as if he had been over-eating himself with
   Indian-pudding or some other plushy compound, this curly-headed little
   man very civilly invited me into his shop; and making a polite bow, and
   bidding me many unnecessary good mornings, and remarking upon the fine
   weather, begged t me to let him look at my fowling-piece. I handed it to
   him in an instant, glad of the chance of disposing of it, and told him
   that was just what I wanted.
   "Ah!" said he, with his Indian-pudding accent again, which I will not
   try to mimic, and abating his look of eagerness, "I thought it was a
   better article, it's very old."
   "Not," said I, starting in surprise, "it's not been used more than three
   times; what will you give for it?"
   "We don't buy any thing here," said he, suddenly looking very
   indifferent, "this is a place where people pawn things." Pawn being a
   word I had never heard before, I asked him what it meant; when he
   replied, that when people wanted any money, they came to him with their
   fowling-pieces, and got one third its value, and then left the
   fowling-piece there, until they were able to pay back the money.
   What a benevolent little old man, this must be, thought I, and how very
   obliging.
   "And pray," said I, "how much will you let me have for my gun, by way of
   a pawn?"
   "Well, I suppose it's worth six dollars, and seeing you're a boy, I'll
   let you have three dollars upon it"
   "No," exclaimed I, seizing the fowling-piece, "it's worth five times
   that, I'll go somewhere else."
   "Good morning, then," said he, "I hope you'll do better," and he bowed
   me out as if he expected to see me again pretty soon.
   I had not gone very far when I came across three more balls hanging over
   a shop. In I went, and saw a long counter, with a sort of picket-fence,
   running all along from end to end, and three little holes, with three
   little old men standing inside of them, like prisoners looking out of a
   jail. Back of the counter were all sorts of things, piled up and
   labeled. Hats, and caps, and coats, and guns, and swords, and canes, and
   chests, and planes, and books, and writing-desks, and every thing else.
   And in a glass case were lots of watches, and seals, chains, and rings,
   and breastpins, and all kinds of trinkets. At one of the little holes,
   earnestly talking with one of the hook-nosed men, was a thin woman in a
   faded silk gown and shawl, holding a pale little girl by the hand. As I
   drew near, she spoke lower in a whisper; and the man shook his head, and
   looked cross and rude; and then some more words were exchanged over a
   miniature, and some money was passed through the hole, and the woman and
   child shrank out of the door.
