   
   She carried a long, rusty gun, on a swivel, amid-ships; and that gun
   was a curiosity in itself. It must have been some old veteran, condemned
   by the government, and sold for any thing it would fetch. It was an
   antique, covered with half-effaced inscriptions, crowns, anchors,
   eagles; and it had two handles near the trunnions, like those of a
   tureen. The knob on the breach was fashioned into a dolphin's head; and
   by a comical conceit, the touch-hole formed the orifice of a human ear;
   and a stout tympanum it must have had, to have withstood the concussions
   it had heard.
   The brig, heavily loaded, lay between two large ships in ballast; so
   that its deck was at least twenty feet below those of its neighbors.
   Thus shut in, its hatchways looked like the entrance to deep vaults or
   mines; especially as her men were wheeling out of her hold some kind of
   ore, which might have been gold ore, so scrupulous were they in evening
   the bushel measures, in which they transferred it to the quay; and so
   particular was the captain, a dark-skinned whiskerando, in a Maltese cap
   and tassel, in standing over the sailors, with his pencil and
   memorandum-book in hand.
   The crew were a buccaneering looking set; with hairy chests, purple
   shirts, and arms wildly tattooed. The mate had a wooden leg, and hobbled
   about with a crooked cane like a spiral staircase. There was a deal of
   swearing on board of this craft, which was rendered the more
   reprehensible when she came to moor alongside the Floating Chapel.
   This was the hull of an old sloop-of-war, which had been converted into
   a mariner's church. A house had been built upon it, and a steeple took
   the place of a mast. There was a little balcony near the base of the
   steeple, some twenty feet from the water; where, on week-days, I used to
   see an old pensioner of a tar, sitting on a camp-stool, reading his
   Bible. On Sundays he hoisted the Bethel flag, and like the muezzin or
   cryer of prayers on the top of a Turkish mosque, would call the
   strolling sailors to their devotions; not officially, but on his own
   account; conjuring them not to make fools of themselves, but muster
   round the pulpit, as they did about the capstan on a man-of-war. This
   old worthy was the sexton. I attended the chapel several times, and
   found there a very orderly but small congregation. The first time I
   went, the chaplain was discoursing on future punishments, and making
   allusions to the Tartarean Lake; which, coupled with the pitchy smell of
   the old hull, summoned up the most forcible image of the thing which I
   ever experienced.
   The floating chapels which are to be found in some of the docks, form
   one of the means which have been tried to induce the seamen visiting
   Liverpool to turn their thoughts toward serious things. But as very few
   of them ever think of entering these chapels, though they might pass
   them twenty times in the day, some of the clergy, of a Sunday, address
   them in the open air, from the corners of the quays, or wherever they
   can procure an audience.
   Whenever, in my Sunday strolls, I caught sight of one of these
   congregations, I always made a point of joining it; and would find
   myself surrounded by a motley crowd of seamen from all quarters of the
   globe, and women, and lumpers, and dock laborers of all sorts.
   Frequently the clergyman would be standing upon an old cask, arrayed in
   full canonicals, as a divine of the Church of England. Never have I
   heard religious discourses better adapted to an audience of men, who,
   like sailors, are chiefly, if not only, to be moved by the plainest of
   precepts, and demonstrations of the misery of sin, as conclusive and
   undeniable as those of Euclid. No mere rhetoric avails with such men;
   fine periods are vanity. You can not touch them with tropes. They need
   to be pressed home by plain facts.
   And such was generally the mode in which they were addressed by the
   clergy in question: who, taking familiar themes for their discourses,
   which were leveled right at the wants of their auditors, always
   succeeded in fastening their attention. In particular, the two great
   vices to which sailors are most addicted, and which they practice to the
   ruin of both body and soul; these things, were the most enlarged upon.
   And several times on the docks, I have seen a robed clergyman addressing
   a large audience of women collected from the notorious lanes and alleys
   in the neighborhood.
   Is not this as it ought to be? since the true calling of the reverend
   clergy is like their divine Master's;--not to bring the righteous, but
   sinners to repentance. Did some of them leave the converted and
   comfortable congregations, before whom they have ministered year after
   year; and plunge at once, like St. Paul, into the infected centers and
   hearts of vice: then indeed, would they find a strong enemy to cope
   with; and a victory gained over him, would entitle them to a conqueror's
   wreath. Better to save one sinner from an obvious vice that is
   destroying him, than to indoctrinate ten thousand saints. And as from
   every corner, in Catholic towns, the shrines of Holy Mary and the Child
   Jesus perpetually remind the commonest wayfarer of his heaven; even so
   should Protestant pulpits be founded in the market-places, and at street
   corners, where the men of God might be heard by all of His children.
   XXXVI. THE OLD CHURCH OF ST. NICHOLAS, AND THE DEAD-HOUSE
   The floating chapel recalls to mind the "Old Church," well known to the
   seamen of many generations, who have visited Liverpool. It stands very
   near the docks, a venerable mass of brown stone, and by the town's
   people is called the Church of St. Nicholas. I believe it is the best
   preserved piece of antiquity in all Liverpool.
   Before the town rose to any importance, it was the only place of worship
   on that side of the Mersey; and under the adjoining Parish of Walton was
   a chapel-of-ease; though from the straight backed pews, there could have
   been but little comfort taken in it.
   In old times, there stood in front of the church a statue of St.
   Nicholas, the patron of mariners; to which all pious sailors made
   offerings, to induce his saintship to grant them short and prosperous
   voyages. In the tower is a fine chime of bells; and I well remember my
   delight at first hearing them on the first Sunday morning after our
   arrival in the dock. It seemed to carry an admonition with it; something
   like the premonition conveyed to young Whittington by Bow Bells.
   "Wettingborough! Wettingborough! you must not forget to go to church,
   Wettingborough! Don't forget, Wettingborough! Wettingborough! don't
   forget."
   Thirty or forty years ago, these bells were rung upon the arrival of
   every Liverpool ship from a foreign voyage. How forcibly does this
   illustrate the increase of the commerce of the town! Were the same
   custom now observed, the bells would seldom have a chance to cease.
   What seemed the most remarkable about this venerable old church, and
   what seemed the most barbarous, and grated upon the veneration with
   which I regarded this time-hallowed structure, was the condition of the
   grave-yard surrounding it. From its close vicinity to the haunts of the
   swarms of laborers about the docks, it is crossed and re-crossed by
   thoroughfares in all directions; and the tomb-stones, not being erect,
   but horizontal (indeed, they form a complete flagging to the spot),
   multitudes are constantly walking over the dead; their heels erasing the
   death's-heads and crossbones, the last mementos of the departed. At
   noon, when the lumpers employed in loading and unloading the shipping,
   retire for an hour to snatch a dinner, many of them resort to the
   grave-yard; and seating themselves upon a tomb-stone use the adjoining
   one for a table. Often, I saw men stretched out in a drunken sleep upon
   these slabs; and once, removing a fellow's arm, read the following
   inscription, which, in a manner, was true to the life, if not to the
   death:--
       "HERE LYETH YE BODY OF TOBIAS DRINKER."
   For two memorable circumstances connected with this church, I am
   indebted to my excellent friend, Morocco, who tells me that in 1588 the
   Earl of Derby, coming to his residence, and waiting for a passage to the
   Isle of Man, the corporation erected and adorned a sumptuous stall in
   the church for his reception. And moreover, that in the time of
   Cromwell's wars, when the place was taken by that mad nephew of King
   Charles, Prince Rupert, he converted the old church into a military
   prison and stable; when, no doubt, another "sumptuous stall" was erected
   for the benefit of the steed of some noble cavalry officer.
