   
   In the basement of the church is a Dead House, like the Morgue in Paris,
   where the bodies of the drowned are exposed until claimed by their
   friends, or till buried at the public charge.
   From the multitudes employed about the shipping, this dead-house has
   always more or less occupants. Whenever I passed up Chapel-street, I
   used to see a crowd gazing through the grim iron grating of the door,
   upon the faces of the drowned within. And once, when the door was
   opened, I saw a sailor stretched out, stark and stiff, with the sleeve
   of his frock rolled up, and showing his name and date of birth tattooed
   upon his arm. It was a sight full of suggestions; he seemed his own
   headstone.
   I was told that standing rewards are offered for the recovery of persons
   falling into the docks; so much, if restored to life, and a less amount
   if irrecoverably drowned. Lured by this, several horrid old men and
   women are constantly prying about the docks, searching after bodies. I
   observed them principally early in the morning, when they issued from
   their dens, on the same principle that the rag-rakers, and
   rubbish-pickers in the streets, sally out bright and early; for then,
   the night-harvest has ripened.
   There seems to be no calamity overtaking man, that can not be rendered
   merchantable. Undertakers, sextons, tomb-makers, and hearse-drivers, get
   their living from the dead; and in times of plague most thrive. And
   these miserable old men and women hunted after corpses to keep from
   going to the church-yard themselves; for they were the most wretched of
   starvelings.
   XXXVII. WHAT REDBURN SAW IN LAUNCELOTT'S-HEY
   The dead-house reminds me of other sad things; for in the vicinity of
   the docks are many very painful sights.
   In going to our boarding-house, the sign of the Baltimore Clipper, I
   generally passed through a narrow street called "Launcelott's-Hey,"
   lined with dingy, prison-like cotton warehouses. In this street, or
   rather alley, you seldom see any one but a truck-man, or some solitary
   old warehouse-keeper, haunting his smoky den like a ghost.
   Once, passing through this place, I heard a feeble wail, which seemed to
   come out of the earth. It was but a strip of crooked side-walk where I
   stood; the dingy wall was on every side, converting the mid-day into
   twilight; and not a soul was in sight. I started, and could almost have
   run, when I heard that dismal sound. It seemed the low, hopeless,
   endless wail of some one forever lost. At last I advanced to an opening
   which communicated downward with deep tiers of cellars beneath a
   crumbling old warehouse; and there, some fifteen feet below the walk,
   crouching in nameless squalor, with her head bowed over, was the figure
   of what had been a woman. Her blue arms folded to her livid bosom two
   shrunken things like children, that leaned toward her, one on each side.
   At first, I knew not whether they were alive or dead. They made no sign;
   they did not move or stir; but from the vault came that soul-sickening
   wail.
   I made a noise with my foot, which, in the silence, echoed far and near;
   but there was no response. Louder still; when one of the children lifted
   its head, and cast upward a faint glance; then closed its eyes, and lay
   motionless. The woman also, now gazed up, and perceived me; but let fall
   her eye again. They were dumb and next to dead with want. How they had
   crawled into that den, I could not tell; but there they had crawled to
   die. At that moment I never thought of relieving them; for death was so
   stamped in their glazed and unimploring eyes, that I almost regarded
   them as already no more. I stood looking down on them, while my whole
   soul swelled within me; and I asked myself, What right had any body in
   the wide world to smile and be glad, when sights like this were to be
   seen? It was enough to turn the heart to gall; and make a man-hater of a
   Howard. For who were these ghosts that I saw? Were they not human
   beings? A woman and two girls? With eyes, and lips, and ears like any
   queen? with hearts which, though they did not bound with blood, yet beat
   with a dull, dead ache that was their life.
   At last, I walked on toward an open lot in the alley, hoping to meet
   there some ragged old women, whom I had daily noticed groping amid foul
   rubbish for little particles of dirty cotton, which they washed out and
   sold for a trifle.
   I found them; and accosting one, I asked if she knew of the persons I
   had just left. She replied, that she did not; nor did she want to. I
   then asked another, a miserable, toothless old woman, with a tattered
   strip of coarse baling stuff round her body. Looking at me for an
   instant, she resumed her raking in the rubbish, and said that she knew
   who it was that I spoke of; but that she had no time to attend to
   beggars and their brats. Accosting still another, who seemed to know my
   errand, I asked if there was no place to which the woman could be taken.
   "Yes," she replied, "to the church-yard." I said she was alive, and not
   dead.
   "Then she'll never die," was the rejoinder. "She's been down there these
   three days, with nothing to eat;--that I know myself."
   "She desarves it," said an old hag, who was just placing on her crooked
   shoulders her bag of pickings, and who was turning to totter off, "that
   Betsy Jennings desarves it--was she ever married? tell me that."
   Leaving Launcelott's-Hey, I turned into a more frequented street; and
   soon meeting a policeman, told him of the condition of the woman and the
   girls.
   "It's none of my business, Jack," said he. "I don't belong to that
   street."
   "Who does then?"
