   
   "I don't know. But what business is it of yours? Are you not a Yankee?"
   "Yes," said I, "but come, I will help you remove that woman, if you say
   so."
   "There, now, Jack, go on board your ship and stick to it; and leave
   these matters to the town."
   I accosted two more policemen, but with no better success; they would
   not even go with me to the place. The truth was, it was out of the way,
   in a silent, secluded spot; and the misery of the three outcasts, hiding
   away in the ground, did not obtrude upon any one.
   Returning to them, I again stamped to attract their attention; but this
   time, none of the three looked up, or even stirred. While I yet stood
   irresolute, a voice called to me from a high, iron-shuttered window in a
   loft over the way; and asked what I was about. I beckoned to the man, a
   sort of porter, to come down, which he did; when I pointed down into the
   vault.
   "Well," said he, "what of it?"
   "Can't we get them out?" said I, "haven't you some place in your
   warehouse where you can put them? have you nothing for them to eat?"
   "You're crazy, boy," said he; "do you suppose, that Parkins and Wood
   want their warehouse turned into a hospital?"
   I then went to my boarding-house, and told Handsome Mary of what I had
   seen; asking her if she could not do something to get the woman and
   girls removed; or if she could not do that, let me have some food for
   them. But though a kind person in the main, Mary replied that she gave
   away enough to beggars in her own street (which was true enough) without
   looking after the whole neighborhood.
   Going into the kitchen, I accosted the cook, a little shriveled-up old
   Welshwoman, with a saucy tongue, whom the sailors called Brandy-Nan; and
   begged her to give me some cold victuals, if she had nothing better, to
   take to the vault. But she broke out in a storm of swearing at the
   miserable occupants of the vault, and refused. I then stepped into the
   room where our dinner was being spread; and waiting till the girl had
   gone out, I snatched some bread and cheese from a stand, and thrusting
   it into the bosom of my frock, left the house. Hurrying to the lane, I
   dropped the food down into the vault. One of the girls caught at it
   convulsively, but fell back, apparently fainting; the sister pushed the
   other's arm aside, and took the bread in her hand; but with a weak
   uncertain grasp like an infant's. She placed it to her mouth; but
   letting it fall again, murmuring faintly something like "water." The
   woman did not stir; her head was bowed over, just as I had first seen
   her.
   Seeing how it was, I ran down toward the docks to a mean little sailor
   tavern, and begged for a pitcher; but the cross old man who kept it
   refused, unless I would pay for it. But I had no money. So as my
   boarding-house was some way off, and it would be lost time to run to the
   ship for my big iron pot; under the impulse of the moment, I hurried to
   one of the Boodle Hydrants, which I remembered having seen running near
   the scene of a still smoldering fire in an old rag house; and taking off
   a new tarpaulin hat, which had been loaned me that day, filled it with
   water.
   With this, I returned to Launcelott's-Hey; and with considerable
   difficulty, like getting down into a well, I contrived to descend with
   it into the vault; where there was hardly space enough left to let me
   stand. The two girls drank out of the hat together; looking up at me
   with an unalterable, idiotic expression, that almost made me faint. The
   woman spoke not a word, and did not stir. While the girls were breaking
   and eating the bread, I tried to lift the woman's head; but, feeble as
   she was, she seemed bent upon holding it down. Observing her arms still
   clasped upon her bosom, and that something seemed hidden under the rags
   there, a thought crossed my mind, which impelled me forcibly to withdraw
   her hands for a moment; when I caught a glimpse of a meager little
   babe--the lower part of its body thrust into an old bonnet. Its face was
   dazzlingly white, even in its squalor; but the closed eyes looked like
   balls of indigo. It must have been dead some hours.
   The woman refusing to speak, eat, or drink, I asked one of the girls who
   they were, and where they lived; but she only stared vacantly, muttering
   something that could not be understood.
   The air of the place was now getting too much for me; but I stood
   deliberating a moment, whether it was possible for me to drag them out
   of the vault. But if I did, what then? They would only perish in the
   street, and here they were at least protected from the rain; and more
   than that, might die in seclusion.
   I crawled up into the street, and looking down upon them again, almost
   repented that I had brought them any food; for it would only tend to
   prolong their misery, without hope of any permanent relief: for die they
   must very soon; they were too far gone for any medicine to help them. I
   hardly know whether I ought to confess another thing that occurred to me
   as I stood there; but it was this-I felt an almost irresistible impulse
   to do them the last mercy, of in some way putting an end to their
   horrible lives; and I should almost have done so, I think, had I not
   been deterred by thoughts of the law. For I well knew that the law,
   which would let them perish of themselves without giving them one cup of
   water, would spend a thousand pounds, if necessary, in convicting him
   who should so much as offer to relieve them from their miserable
   existence.
   The next day, and the next, I passed the vault three times, and still
   met the same sight. The girls leaning up against the woman on each side,
   and the woman with her arms still folding the babe, and her head bowed.
   The first evening I did not see the bread that I had dropped down in the
   morning; but the second evening, the bread I had dropped that morning
   remained untouched. On the third morning the smell that came from the
   vault was such, that I accosted the same policeman I had accosted
   before, who was patrolling the same street, and told him that the
   persons I had spoken to him about were dead, and he had better have them
   removed. He looked as if he did not believe me, and added, that it was
   not his street.
   When I arrived at the docks on my way to the ship, I entered the
   guard-house within the walls, and asked for one of the captains, to whom
   I told the story; but, from what he said, was led to infer that the Dock
   Police was distinct from that of the town, and this was not the right
   place to lodge my information.
   I could do no more that morning, being obliged to repair to the ship;
   but at twelve o'clock, when I went to dinner, I hurried into
   Launcelott's-Hey, when I found that the vault was empty. In place of the
   women and children, a heap of quick-lime was glistening.
   I could not learn who had taken them away, or whither they had gone; but
   my prayer was answered--they were dead, departed, and at peace.
   But again I looked down into the vault, and in fancy beheld the pale,
   shrunken forms still crouching there. Ah! what are our creeds, and how
   do we hope to be saved? Tell me, oh Bible, that story of Lazarus again,
   that I may find comfort in my heart for the poor and forlorn. Surrounded
   as we are by the wants and woes of our fellowmen, and yet given to
   follow our own pleasures, regardless of their pains, are we not like
   people sitting up with a corpse, and making merry in the house of the
   dead?
