   
   XXXVIII. THE DOCK-WALL BEGGARS
   I might relate other things which befell me during the six weeks and
   more that I remained in Liverpool, often visiting the cellars, sinks,
   and hovels of the wretched lanes and courts near the river. But to tell
   of them, would only be to tell over again the story just told; so I
   return to the docks.
   The old women described as picking dirty fragments of cotton in tie
   empty lot, belong to the same class of beings who at all hours of the
   day are to be seen within the dock walls, raking over and over the heaps
   of rubbish carried ashore from the holds of the shipping.
   As it is against the law to throw the least thing overboard, even a rope
   yarn; and as this law is very different from similar laws in New York,
   inasmuch as it is rigidly enforced by the dock-masters; and, moreover,
   as after discharging a ship's cargo, a great deal of dirt and worthless
   dunnage remains in the hold, the amount of rubbish accumulated in the
   appointed receptacles for depositing it within the walls is extremely
   large, and is constantly receiving new accessions from every vessel that
   unlades at the quays.
   Standing over these noisome heaps, you will see scores of tattered
   wretches, armed with old rakes and picking-irons, turning over the dirt,
   and making as much of a rope-yarn as if it were a skein of silk. Their
   findings, nevertheless, are but small; for as it is one of the
   immemorial perquisites of the second mate of a merchant ship to collect,
   and sell on his own account, all the condemned "old junk" of the vessel
   to which he belongs, he generally takes good heed that in the buckets of
   rubbish carried ashore, there shall be as few rope-yarns as possible.
   In the same way, the cook preserves all the odds and ends of pork-rinds
   and beef-fat, which he sells at considerable profit; upon a six months'
   voyage frequently realizing thirty or forty dollars from the sale, and
   in large ships, even more than that. It may easily be imagined, then,
   how desperately driven to it must these rubbish-pickers be, to ransack
   heaps of refuse which have been previously gleaned.
   Nor must I omit to make mention of the singular beggary practiced in the
   streets frequented by sailors; and particularly to record the remarkable
   army of paupers that beset the docks at particular hours of the day.
   At twelve o'clock the crews of hundreds and hundreds of ships issue in
   crowds from the dock gates to go to their dinner in the town. This hour
   is seized upon by multitudes of beggars to plant themselves against the
   outside of the walls, while others stand upon the curbstone to excite
   the charity of the seamen. The first time that I passed through this
   long lane of pauperism, it seemed hard to believe that such an array of
   misery could be furnished by any town in the world.
   Every variety of want and suffering here met the eye, and every vice
   showed here its victims. Nor were the marvelous and almost incredible
   shifts and stratagems of the professional beggars, wanting to finish
   this picture of all that is dishonorable to civilization and humanity.
   Old women, rather mummies, drying up with slow starving and age; young
   girls, incurably sick, who ought to have been in the hospital; sturdy
   men, with the gallows in their eyes, and a whining lie in their mouths;
   young boys, hollow-eyed and decrepit; and puny mothers, holding up puny
   babes in the glare of the sun, formed the main features of the scene.
   But these were diversified by instances of peculiar suffering, vice, or
   art in attracting charity, which, to me at least, who had never seen
   such things before, seemed to the last degree uncommon and monstrous.
   I remember one cripple, a young man rather decently clad, who sat
   huddled up against the wall, holding a painted board on his knees. It
   was a picture intending to represent the man himself caught in the
   machinery of some factory, and whirled about among spindles and cogs,
   with his limbs mangled and bloody. This person said nothing, but sat
   silently exhibiting his board. Next him, leaning upright against the
   wall, was a tall, pallid man, with a white bandage round his brow, and
   his face cadaverous as a corpse. He, too, said nothing; but with one
   finger silently pointed down to the square of flagging at his feet,
   which was nicely swept, and stained blue, and bore this inscription in
   chalk:--
      "I have had no food for three days;
       My wife and children are dying."
   Further on lay a man with one sleeve of his ragged coat removed, showing
   an unsightly sore; and above it a label with some writing.
   In some places, for the distance of many rods, the whole line of
   flagging immediately at the base of the wall, would be completely
   covered with inscriptions, the beggars standing over them in silence.
   But as you passed along these horrible records, in an hour's time
   destined to be obliterated by the feet of thousands and thousands of
   wayfarers, you were not left unassailed by the clamorous petitions of
   the more urgent applicants for charity. They beset you on every hand;
   catching you by the coat; hanging on, and following you along; and, for
   Heaven's sake, and for God's sake, and for Christ's sake, beseeching of
   you but one ha'penny. If you so much as glanced your eye on one of them,
   even for an instant, it was perceived like lightning, and the person
   never left your side until you turned into another street, or satisfied
   his demands. Thus, at least, it was with the sailors; though I observed
   that the beggars treated the town's people differently.
