   
   I can not say that the seamen did much to relieve the destitution which
   three times every day was presented to their view. Perhaps habit had
   made them callous; but the truth might have been that very few of them
   had much money to give. Yet the beggars must have had some inducement to
   infest the dock walls as they did.
   As an example of the caprice of sailors, and their sympathy with
   suffering among members of their own calling, I must mention the case of
   an old man, who every day, and all day long, through sunshine and rain,
   occupied a particular corner, where crowds of tars were always passing.
   He was an uncommonly large, plethoric man, with a wooden leg, and
   dressed in the nautical garb; his face was red and round; he was
   continually merry; and with his wooden stump thrust forth, so as almost
   to trip up the careless wayfarer, he sat upon a great pile of monkey
   jackets, with a little depression in them between his knees, to receive
   the coppers thrown him. And plenty of pennies were tost into his
   poor-box by the sailors, who always exchanged a pleasant word with the
   old man, and passed on, generally regardless of the neighboring beggars.
   The first morning I went ashore with my shipmates, some of them greeted
   him as an old acquaintance; for that corner he had occupied for many
   long years. He was an old man-of-war's man, who had lost his leg at the
   battle of Trafalgar; and singular to tell, he now exhibited his wooden
   one as a genuine specimen of the oak timbers of Nelson's ship, the
   Victory.
   Among the paupers were several who wore old sailor hats and jackets, and
   claimed to be destitute tars; and on the strength of these pretensions
   demanded help from their brethren; but Jack would see through their
   disguise in a moment, and turn away, with no benediction.
   As I daily passed through this lane of beggars, who thronged the docks
   as the Hebrew cripples did the Pool of Bethesda, and as I thought of my
   utter inability in any way to help them, I could not but offer up a
   prayer, that some angel might descend, and turn the waters of the docks
   into an elixir, that would heal all their woes, and make them, man and
   woman, healthy and whole as their ancestors, Adam and Eve, in the
   garden.
   Adam and Eve! If indeed ye are yet alive and in heaven, may it be no
   part of your immortality to look down upon the world ye have left. For
   as all these sufferers and cripples are as much your family as young
   Abel, so, to you, the sight of the world's woes would be a parental
   torment indeed.
   XXXIX. THE BOOBLE-ALLEYS OF THE TOWN
   The same sights that are to be met with along the dock walls at noon, in
   a less degree, though diversified with other scenes, are continually
   encountered in the narrow streets where the sailor boarding-houses are
   kept.
   In the evening, especially when the sailors are gathered in great
   numbers, these streets present a most singular spectacle, the entire
   population of the vicinity being seemingly turned into them. Hand-
   organs, fiddles, and cymbals, plied by strolling musicians, mix with
   the songs of the seamen, the babble of women and children, and the
   groaning and whining of beggars. From the various boarding-houses, each
   distinguished by gilded emblems outside--an anchor, a crown, a ship, a
   windlass, or a dolphin--proceeds the noise of revelry and dancing; and
   from the open casements lean young girls and old women, chattering and
   laughing with the crowds in the middle of the street. Every moment
   strange greetings are exchanged between old sailors who chance to
   stumble upon a shipmate, last seen in Calcutta or Savannah; and the
   invariable courtesy that takes place upon these occasions, is to go to
   the next spirit-vault, and drink each other's health.
   There are particular paupers who frequent particular sections of these
   streets, and who, I was told, resented the intrusion of mendicants from
   other parts of the town.
   Chief among them was a white-haired old man, stone-blind; who was led up
   and down through the long tumult by a woman holding a little saucer to
   receive contributions. This old man sang, or rather chanted, certain
   words in a peculiarly long-drawn, guttural manner, throwing back his
   head, and turning up his sightless eyeballs to the sky. His chant was a
   lamentation upon his infirmity; and at the time it produced the same
   effect upon me, that my first reading of Milton's Invocation to the Sun
   did, years afterward. I can not recall it all; but it was something like
   this, drawn out in an endless groan--
   "Here goes the blind old man; blind, blind, blind; no more will he see
   sun nor moon--no more see sun nor moon!" And thus would he pass through
   the middle of the street; the woman going on in advance, holding his
   hand, and dragging him through all obstructions; now and then leaving
   him standing, while she went among the crowd soliciting coppers.
   But one of the most curious features of the scene is the number of
   sailor ballad-singers, who, after singing their verses, hand you a
   printed copy, and beg you to buy. One of these persons, dressed like a
   man-of-war's-man, I observed every day standing at a corner in the
   middle of the street. He had a full, noble voice, like a church-organ;
   and his notes rose high above the surrounding din. But the remarkable
   thing about this ballad-singer was one of his arms, which, while
   singing, he somehow swung vertically round and round in the air, as if
   it revolved on a pivot. The feat was unnaturally unaccountable; and he
   performed it with the view of attracting sympathy; since he said that in
   falling from a frigate's mast-head to the deck, he had met with an
   injury, which had resulted in making his wonderful arm what it was.
   I made the acquaintance of this man, and found him no common character.
   He was full of marvelous adventures, and abounded in terrific stories of
   pirates and sea murders, and all sorts of nautical enormities. He was a
   monomaniac upon these subjects; he was a Newgate Calendar of the
   robberies and assassinations of the day, happening in the sailor
   quarters of the town; and most of his ballads were upon kindred
   subjects. He composed many of his own verses, and had them printed for
   sale on his own account. To show how expeditious he was at this
   business, it may be mentioned, that one evening on leaving the dock to
   go to supper, I perceived a crowd gathered about the Old Fort Tavern;
   and mingling with the rest, I learned that a woman of the town had just
   been killed at the bar by a drunken Spanish sailor from Cadiz. The
   murderer was carried off by the police before my eyes, and the very next
   morning the ballad-singer with the miraculous arm, was singing the
   tragedy in front of the boarding-houses, and handing round printed
   copies of the song, which, of course, were eagerly bought up by the
   seamen.
   This passing allusion to the murder will convey some idea of the events
   which take place in the lowest and most abandoned neighborhoods
   frequented by sailors in Liverpool. The pestilent lanes and alleys
   which, in their vocabulary, go by the names of Rotten-row,
   Gibraltar-place, and Booble-alley, are putrid with vice and crime; to
   which, perhaps, the round globe does not furnish a parallel. The sooty
   and begrimed bricks of the very houses have a reeking, Sodomlike, and
   murderous look; and well may the shroud of coal-smoke, which hangs over
   this part of the town, more than any other, attempt to hide the
   enormities here practiced. These are the haunts from which sailors
   sometimes disappear forever; or issue in the morning, robbed naked, from
   the broken doorways. These are the haunts in which cursing, gambling,
   pickpocketing, and common iniquities, are virtues too lofty for the
   infected gorgons and hydras to practice. Propriety forbids that I should
   enter into details; but kidnappers, burkers, and resurrectionists are
   almost saints and angels to them. They seem leagued together, a company
   of miscreant misanthropes, bent upon doing all the malice to mankind in
   their power. With sulphur and brimstone they ought to be burned out of
   their arches like vermin.
