   
   XL. PLACARDS, BRASS-JEWELERS, TRUCK-HORSES, AND STEAMERS
   As I wish to group together what fell under my observation concerning
   the Liverpool docks, and the scenes roundabout, I will try to throw into
   this chapter various minor things that I recall.
   The advertisements of pauperism chalked upon the flagging round the dock
   walls, are singularly accompanied by a multitude of quite different
   announcements, placarded upon the walls themselves. They are principally
   notices of the approaching departure of "superior, fast-sailing,
   coppered and copper-fastened ships," for the United States, Canada, New
   South Wales, and other places. Interspersed with these, are the
   advertisements of Jewish clothesmen, informing the judicious seamen
   where he can procure of the best and the cheapest; together with
   ambiguous medical announcements of the tribe of quacks and empirics who
   prey upon all seafaring men. Not content with thus publicly giving
   notice of their whereabouts, these indefatigable Sangrados and pretended
   Samaritans hire a parcel of shabby workhouse-looking knaves, whose
   business consists in haunting the dock walls about meal times, and
   silently thrusting mysterious little billets--duodecimo editions of the
   larger advertisements--into the astonished hands of the tars.
   They do this, with such a mysterious hang-dog wink; such a sidelong air;
   such a villainous assumption of your necessities; that, at first, you
   are almost tempted to knock them down for their pains.
   Conspicuous among the notices on the walls, are huge Italic inducements
   to all seamen disgusted with the merchant service, to accept a round
   bounty, and embark in her Majesty's navy.
   In the British armed marine, in time of peace, they do not ship men for
   the general service, as in the American navy; but for particular ships,
   going upon particular cruises. Thus, the frigate Thetis may be announced
   as about to sail under the command of that fine old sailor, and noble
   father to his crew, Lord George Flagstaff.
   Similar announcements may be seen upon the walls concerning enlistments
   in the army. And never did auctioneer dilate with more rapture upon the
   charms of some country-seat put up for sale, than the authors of these
   placards do, upon the beauty and salubrity of the distant climes, for
   which the regiments wanting recruits are about to sail. Bright lawns,
   vine-clad hills, endless meadows of verdure, here make up the landscape;
   and adventurous young gentlemen, fond of travel, are informed, that here
   is a chance for them to see the world at their leisure, and be paid for
   enjoying themselves into the bargain. The regiments for India are
   promised plantations among valleys of palms; while to those destined for
   New Holland, a novel sphere of life and activity is opened; and the
   companies bound to Canada and Nova Scotia are lured by tales of summer
   suns, that ripen grapes in December. No word of war is breathed; hushed
   is the clang of arms in these announcements; and the sanguine recruit is
   almost tempted to expect that pruning-hooks, instead of swords, will be
   the weapons he will wield.
   Alas! is not this the cruel stratagem of Brace at Bannockburn, who
   decoyed to his war-pits by covering them over with green boughs? For
   instead of a farm at the blue base of the Himalayas, the Indian recruit
   encounters the keen saber of the Sikh; and instead of basking in sunny
   bowers, the Canadian soldier stands a shivering sentry upon the bleak
   ramparts of Quebec, a lofty mark for the bitter blasts from Baffin's Bay
   and Labrador. There, as his eye sweeps down the St. Lawrence, whose
   every billow is bound for the main that laves the shore of Old England;
   as he thinks of his long term of enlistment, which sells him to the army
   as Doctor Faust sold himself to the devil; how the poor fellow must
   groan in his grief, and call to mind the church-yard stile, and his
   Mary.
   These army announcements are well fitted to draw recruits in Liverpool.
   Among the vast number of emigrants, who daily arrive from all parts of
   Britain to embark for the United States or the colonies, there are many
   young men, who, upon arriving at Liverpool, find themselves next to
   penniless; or, at least, with only enough money to carry them over the
   sea, without providing for future contingencies. How easily and
   naturally, then, may such youths be induced to enter upon the military
   life, which promises them a free passage to the most distant and
   flourishing colonies, and certain pay for doing nothing; besides holding
   out hopes of vineyards and farms, to be verified in the fullness of
   time. For in a moneyless youth, the decision to leave home at all, and
   embark upon a long voyage to reside in a remote clime, is a piece of
   adventurousness only one removed from the spirit that prompts the army
   recruit to enlist.
   I never passed these advertisements, surrounded by crowds of gaping
   emigrants, without thinking of rattraps.
   Besides the mysterious agents of the quacks, who privily thrust their
   little notes into your hands, folded up like a powder; there are another
   set of rascals prowling about the docks, chiefly at dusk; 'who make
   strange motions to you, and beckon you to one side, as if they had some
   state secret to disclose, intimately connected with the weal of the
   commonwealth. They nudge you with an elbow full of indefinite hints
   and intimations; they glitter upon you an eye like a Jew's or a
   pawnbroker's; they dog you like Italian assassins. But if the blue coat
   of a policeman chances to approach, how quickly they strive to look
   completely indifferent, as to the surrounding universe; how they saunter
   off, as if lazily wending their way to an affectionate wife and family.
   The first time one of these mysterious personages accosted me, I fancied
   him crazy, and hurried forward to avoid him. But arm in arm with my
   shadow, he followed after; till amazed at his conduct, I turned round
   and paused.
   He was a little, shabby, old man, with a forlorn looking coat and hat;
   and his hand was fumbling in his vest pocket, as if to take out a card
   with his address. Seeing me stand still he made a sign toward a dark
   angle of the wall, near which we were; when taking him for a cunning
   foot-pad, I again wheeled about, and swiftly passed on. But though I did
   not look round, I felt him following me still; so once more I stopped.
   The fellow now assumed so mystic and admonitory an air, that I began to
   fancy he came to me on some warning errand; that perhaps a plot had been
   laid to blow up the Liverpool docks, and he was some Monteagle bent upon
   accomplishing my flight. I was determined to see what he was. With all
   my eyes about me, I followed him into the arch of a warehouse; when he
   gazed round furtively, and silently showing me a ring, whispered, "You
   may have it for a shilling; it's pure gold-I found it in the
   gutter-hush! don't speak! give me the money, and it's yours."
   "My friend," said I, "I don't trade in these articles; I don't want your
   ring."
   "Don't you? Then take, that," he whispered, in an intense hushed
   passion; and I fell flat from a blow on the chest, while this infamous
   jeweler made away with himself out of sight. This business transaction
   was conducted with a counting-house promptitude that astonished me.
   After that, I shunned these scoundrels like the leprosy: and the next
   time I was pertinaciously followed, I stopped, and in a loud voice,
   pointed out the man to the passers-by; upon which he absconded; rapidly
   turning up into sight a pair of obliquely worn and battered boot-heels.
   I could not help thinking that these sort of fellows, so given to
   running away upon emergencies, must furnish a good deal of work to the
   shoemakers; as they might, also, to the growers of hemp and
   gallows-joiners.
   Belonging to a somewhat similar fraternity with these irritable
   merchants of brass jewelry just mentioned, are the peddlers of Sheffield
   razors, mostly boys, who are hourly driven out of the dock gates by the
   police; nevertheless, they contrive to saunter back, and board the
   vessels, going among the sailors and privately exhibiting their wares.
   Incited by the extreme cheapness of one of the razors, and the gilding
   on the case containing it, a shipmate of mine purchased it on the spot
   for a commercial equivalent of the price, in tobacco. On the following
   Sunday, he used that razor; and the result was a pair of tormented and
   tomahawked cheeks, that almost required a surgeon to dress them. In old
   times, by the way, it was not a bad thought, that suggested the
   propriety of a barber's practicing surgery in connection with the
   chin-harrowing vocation. Another class of knaves, who practice upon the
   sailors in Liverpool, are the pawnbrokers, inhabiting little rookeries
   among the narrow lanes adjoining the dock. I was astonished at die
   multitude of gilded balls in these streets, emblematic of their calling.
   They were generally next neighbors to the gilded grapes over the
   spirit-vaults; and no doubt, mutually to facilitate business operations,
   some of these establishments have connecting doors inside, so as to play
   their customers into each other's hands. I often saw sailors in a state
   of intoxication rushing from a spirit-vault into a pawnbroker's;
   stripping off their boots, hats, jackets, and neckerchiefs, and
   sometimes even their pantaloons on the spot, and offering to pawn them
   for a song. Of course such applications were never refused. But though
   on shore, at Liverpool, poor Jack finds more sharks than at sea, he
   himself is by no means exempt from practices, that do not savor of a
   rigid morality; at least according to law. In tobacco smuggling he is an
   adept: and when cool and collected, often manages to evade the Customs
   completely, and land goodly packages of the weed, which owing to the
   immense duties upon it in England, commands a very high price.
