   
   As soon as we came to anchor in the river, before reaching the dock,
   three Custom-house underlings boarded us, and coming down into the
   forecastle, ordered the men to produce all the tobacco they had.
   Accordingly several pounds were brought forth.
   "Is that all?" asked the officers.
   "All," said the men.
   "We will see," returned the others.
   And without more ado, they emptied the chests right and left; tossed
   over the bunks and made a thorough search of the premises; but
   discovered nothing. The sailors were then given to understand, that
   while the ship lay in dock, the tobacco must remain in the cabin, under
   custody of the chief mate, who every morning would dole out to them one
   plug per head, as a security against their carrying it ashore.
   "Very good," said the men.
   But several of them had secret places in the ship, from whence they
   daily drew pound after pound of tobacco, which they smuggled ashore in
   the manner following.
   When the crew went to meals, each man carried at least one plug in his
   pocket; that he had a right to; and as many more were hidden about his
   person as he dared. Among the great crowds pouring out of the dock-gates
   at such hours, of course these smugglers stood little chance of
   detection; although vigilant looking policemen were always standing by.
   And though these "Charlies" might suppose there were tobacco smugglers
   passing; yet to hit the right man among such a throng, would be as hard,
   as to harpoon a speckled porpoise, one of ten thousand darting under a
   ship's bows.
   Our forecastle was often visited by foreign sailors, who knowing we came
   from America, were anxious to purchase tobacco at a cheap rate; for in
   Liverpool it is about an American penny per pipe-full. Along the docks
   they sell an English pennyworth, put up in a little roll like
   confectioners' mottoes, with poetical lines, or instructive little moral
   precepts printed in red on the back.
   Among all the sights of the docks, the noble truck-horses are not the
   least striking to a stranger. They are large and powerful brutes, with
   such sleek and glossy coats, that they look as if brushed and put on by
   a valet every morning. They march with a slow and stately step, lifting
   their ponderous hoofs like royal Siam elephants. Thou shalt not lay
   stripes upon these Roman citizens; for their docility is such, they are
   guided without rein or lash; they go or come, halt or march on, at a
   whisper. So grave, dignified, gentlemanly, and courteous did these fine
   truck-horses look--so full of calm intelligence and sagacity, that often
   I endeavored to get into conversation with them, as they stood in
   contemplative attitudes while their loads were preparing. But all I
   could get from them was the mere recognition of a friendly neigh; though
   I would stake much upon it that, could I have spoken in their language,
   I would have derived from them a good deal of valuable information
   touching the docks, where they passed the whole of their dignified
   lives.
   There are unknown worlds of knowledge in brutes; and whenever you mark a
   horse, or a dog, with a peculiarly mild, calm, deep-seated eye, be sure
   he is an Aristotle or a Kant, tranquilly speculating upon the mysteries
   in man. No philosophers so thoroughly comprehend us as dogs and horses.
   They see through us at a glance. And after all, what is a horse but a
   species of four-footed dumb man, in a leathern overall, who happens to
   live upon oats, and toils for his masters, half-requited or abused, like
   the biped hewers of wood and drawers of water? But there is a touch of
   divinity even in brutes, and a special halo about a horse, that should
   forever exempt him from indignities. As for those majestic, magisterial
   truck-horses of the docks, I would as soon think of striking a judge on
   the bench, as to lay violent hand upon their holy hides.
   It is wonderful what loads their majesties will condescend to draw. The
   truck is a large square platform, on four low wheels; and upon this the
   lumpers pile bale after bale of cotton, as if they were filling a large
   warehouse, and yet a procession of three of these horses will tranquilly
   walk away with the whole.
   The truckmen themselves are almost as singular a race as their animals.
   Like the Judiciary in England, they wear gowns,--not of the same cut and
   color though,--which reach below their knees; and from the racket they
   make on the pavements with their hob-nailed brogans, you would think
   they patronized the same shoemaker with their horses. I never could get
   any thing out of these truckmen. They are a reserved, sober-sided set,
   who, with all possible solemnity, march at the head of their animals;
   now and then gently advising them to sheer to the right or the left, in
   order to avoid some passing vehicle. Then spending so much of their
   lives in the high-bred company of their horses, seems to have mended
   their manners and improved their taste, besides imparting to them
   something of the dignity of their animals; but it has also given to them
   a sort of refined and uncomplaining aversion to human society.
   There are many strange stories told of the truck-horse. Among others is
   the following: There was a parrot, that from having long been suspended
   in its cage from a low window fronting a dock, had learned to converse
   pretty fluently in the language of the stevedores and truckmen. One day
   a truckman left his vehicle standing on the quay, with its back to the
   water. It was noon, when an interval of silence falls upon the docks;
   and Poll, seeing herself face to face with the horse, and having a mind
   for a chat, cried out to him, "Back! back! back!"
   Backward went the horse, precipitating himself and truck into the water.
   Brunswick Dock, to the west of Prince's, is one of the most interesting
   to be seen. Here lie the various black steamers (so unlike the American
   boats, since they have to navigate the boisterous Narrow Seas) plying to
   all parts of the three kingdoms. Here you see vast quantities of
   produce, imported from starving Ireland; here you see the decks turned
   into pens for oxen and sheep; and often, side by side with these
   inclosures, Irish deck-passengers, thick as they can stand, seemingly
   penned in just like the cattle. It was the beginning of July when the
   Highlander arrived in port; and the Irish laborers were daily coming
   over by thousands, to help harvest the English crops.
   One morning, going into the town, I heard a tramp, as of a drove of
   buffaloes, behind me; and turning round, beheld the entire middle of the
   street filled by a great crowd of these men, who had just emerged from
   Brunswick Dock gates, arrayed in long-tailed coats of hoddin-gray,
   corduroy knee-breeches, and shod with shoes that raised a mighty dust.
   Flourishing their Donnybrook shillelahs, they looked like an irruption
   of barbarians. They were marching straight out of town into the country;
   and perhaps out of consideration for the finances of the corporation,
   took the middle of the street, to save the side-walks.
   "Sing Langolee, and the Lakes of Killarney," cried one fellow, tossing
   his stick into the air, as he danced in his brogans at the head of the
   rabble. And so they went! capering on, merry as pipers.
   When I thought of the multitudes of Irish that annually land on the
   shores of the United States and Canada, and, to my surprise, witnessed
   the additional multitudes embarking from Liverpool to New Holland; and
   when, added to all this, I daily saw these hordes of laborers,
   descending, thick as locusts, upon the English corn-fields; I could not
   help marveling at the fertility of an island, which, though her crop of
   potatoes may fail, never yet failed in bringing her annual crop of men
   into the world.
