   
   XLI. REDBURN ROVES ABOUT HITHER AND THITHER
   I do not know that any other traveler would think it worth while to
   mention such a thing; but the fact is, that during the summer months in
   Liverpool, the days are exceedingly lengthy; and the first evening I
   found myself walking in the twilight after nine o'clock, I tried to
   recall my astronomical knowledge, in order to account satisfactorily for
   so curious a phenomenon. But the days in summer, and the nights in
   winter, are just as long in Liverpool as at Cape Horn; for the latitude
   of the two places very nearly corresponds.
   These Liverpool days, however, were a famous thing for me; who, thereby,
   was enabled after my day's work aboard the Highlander, to ramble about
   the town for several hours. After I had visited all the noted places I
   could discover, of those marked down upon my father's map, I began to
   extend my rovings indefinitely; forming myself into a committee of one,
   to investigate all accessible parts of the town; though so many years
   have elapsed, ere I have thought of bringing in my report.
   This was a great delight to me: for wherever I have been in the world, I
   have always taken a vast deal of lonely satisfaction in wandering about,
   up and down, among out-of-the-way streets and alleys, and speculating
   upon the strangers I have met. Thus, in Liverpool I used to pace along
   endless streets of dwelling-houses, looking at the names on the doors,
   admiring the pretty faces in the windows, and invoking a passing
   blessing upon the chubby children on the door-steps. I was stared at
   myself, to be sure: but what of that? We must give and take on such
   occasions. In truth, I and my shooting-jacket produced quite a sensation
   in Liverpool: and I have no doubt, that many a father of a family went
   home to his children with a curious story, about a wandering phenomenon
   they had encountered, traversing the side-walks that day. In the words
   of the old song, "I cared for nobody, no not I, and nobody cared for
   me." I stared my fill with impunity, and took all stares myself in good
   part.
   Once I was standing in a large square, gaping at a splendid chariot
   drawn up at a portico. The glossy horses quivered with good-living, and
   so did the sumptuous calves of the gold-laced coachman and footmen in
   attendance. I was particularly struck with the red cheeks of these men:
   and the many evidences they furnished of their enjoying this meal with a
   wonderful relish.
   While thus standing, I all at once perceived, that the objects of my
   curiosity, were making me an object of their own; and that they were
   gazing at me, as if I were some unauthorized intruder upon the British
   soil. Truly, they had reason: for when I now think of the figure I must
   have cut in those days, I only marvel that, in my many strolls, my
   passport was not a thousand times demanded.
   Nevertheless, I was only a forlorn looking mortal among tens of
   thousands of rags and tatters. For in some parts of the town, inhabited
   by laborers, and poor people generally; I used to crowd my way through
   masses of squalid men, women, and children, who at this evening hour, in
   those quarters of Liverpool, seem to empty themselves into the street,
   and live there for the time. I had never seen any thing like it in New
   York. Often, I witnessed some curious, and many very sad scenes; and
   especially I remembered encountering a pale, ragged man, rushing along
   frantically, and striving to throw off his wife and children, who clung
   to his arms and legs; and, in God's name, conjured him not to desert
   them. He seemed bent upon rushing down to the water, and drowning
   himself, in some despair, and craziness of wretchedness. In these
   haunts, beggary went on before me wherever I walked, and dogged me
   unceasingly at the heels. Poverty, poverty, poverty, in almost endless
   vistas: and want and woe staggered arm in arm along these miserable
   streets.
   And here, I must not omit one thing, that struck me at the time. It was
   the absence of negroes; who in the large towns in the "free states" of
   America, almost always form a considerable portion of the destitute. But
   in these streets, not a negro was to be seen. All were whites; and with
   the exception of the Irish, were natives of the soil: even Englishmen;
   as much Englishmen, as the dukes in the House of Lords. This conveyed a
   strange feeling: and more than any thing else, reminded me that I was
   not in my own land. For there, such a being as a native beggar is almost
   unknown; and to be a born American citizen seems a guarantee against
   pauperism; and this, perhaps, springs from the virtue of a vote.
   Speaking of negroes, recalls the looks of interest with which negro-
   sailors are regarded when they walk the Liverpool streets. In
   Liverpool indeed the negro steps with a prouder pace, and lifts his head
   like a man; for here, no such exaggerated feeling exists in respect to
   him, as in America. Three or four times, I encountered our black
   steward, dressed very handsomely, and walking arm in arm with a
   good-looking English woman. In New York, such a couple would have been
   mobbed in three minutes; and the steward would have been lucky to escape
   with whole limbs. Owing to the friendly reception extended to them, and
   the unwonted immunities they enjoy in Liverpool, the black cooks and
   stewards of American ships are very much attached to the place and like
   to make voyages to it.
   Being so young and inexperienced then, and unconsciously swayed in some
   degree by those local and social prejudices, that are the marring of
   most men, and from which, for the mass, there seems no possible escape;
   at first I was surprised that a colored man should be treated as he is
   in this town; but a little reflection showed that, after all, it was but
   recognizing his claims to humanity and normal equality; so that, in some
   things, we Americans leave to other countries the carrying out of the
   principle that stands at the head of our Declaration of Independence.
   During my evening strolls in the wealthier quarters, I was subject to a
   continual mortification. It was the humiliating fact, wholly unforeseen
   by me, that upon the whole, and barring the poverty and beggary,
   Liverpool, away from the docks, was very much such a place as New York.
   There were the same sort of streets pretty much; the same rows of houses
   with stone steps; the same kind of side-walks and curbs; and the same
   elbowing, heartless-looking crowd as ever.
   I came across the Leeds Canal, one afternoon; but, upon my word, no one
   could have told it from the Erie Canal at Albany. I went into St. John's
   Market on a Saturday night; and though it was strange enough to see that
   great roof supported by so many pillars, yet the most discriminating
   observer would not have been able to detect any difference between the
   articles exposed for sale, and the articles exhibited in Fulton Market,
   New York.
   I walked down Lord-street, peering into the jewelers' shops; but I
   thought I was walking down a block in Broadway. I began to think that
   all this talk about travel was a humbug; and that he who lives in a
   nut-shell, lives in an epitome of the universe, and has but little to
   see beyond him.
   It is true, that I often thought of London's being only seven or eight
   hours' travel by railroad from where I was; and that there, surely, must
   be a world of wonders waiting my eyes: but more of London anon.
   Sundays were the days upon which I made my longest explorations. I rose
   bright and early, with my whole plan of operations in my head. First
   walking into some dock hitherto unexamined, and then to breakfast. Then
   a walk through the more fashionable streets, to see the people going to
   church; and then I myself went to church, selecting the goodliest
   edifice, and the tallest Kentuckian of a spire I could find.
   For I am an admirer of church architecture; and though, perhaps, the
   sums spent in erecting magnificent cathedrals might better go to the
   founding of charities, yet since these structures are built, those who
   disapprove of them in one sense, may as well have the benefit of them in
   another.
   It is a most Christian thing, and a matter most sweet to dwell upon and
   simmer over in solitude, that any poor sinner may go to church wherever
   he pleases; and that even St. Peter's in Rome is open to him, as to a
   cardinal; that St. Paul's in London is not shut against him; and that
   the Broadway Tabernacle, in New York, opens all her broad aisles to him,
   and will not even have doors and thresholds to her pews, the better to
   allure him by an unbounded invitation. I say, this consideration of the
   hospitality and democracy in churches, is a most Christian and charming
   thought. It speaks whole volumes of folios, and Vatican libraries, for
   Christianity; it is more eloquent, and goes farther home than all the
   sermons of Massillon, Jeremy Taylor, Wesley, and Archbishop Tillotson.
