   
   Nothing daunted, therefore, by thinking of my being a stranger in the
   land; nothing daunted by the architectural superiority and costliness of
   any Liverpool church; or by the streams of silk dresses and fine
   broadcloth coats flowing into the aisles, I used humbly to present
   myself before the sexton, as a candidate for admission. He would stare a
   little, perhaps (one of them once hesitated), but in the end, what could
   he do but show me into a pew; not the most commodious of pews, to be
   sure; nor commandingly located; nor within very plain sight or hearing
   of the pulpit. No; it was remarkable, that there was always some
   confounded pillar or obstinate angle of the wall in the way; and I used
   to think, that the sextons of Liverpool must have held a secret meeting
   on my account, and resolved to apportion me the most inconvenient pew in
   the churches under their charge. However, they always gave me a seat of
   some sort or other; sometimes even on an oaken bench in the open air of
   the aisle, where I would sit, dividing the attention of the congregation
   between myself and the clergyman. The whole congregation seemed to know
   that I was a foreigner of distinction.
   It was sweet to hear the service read, the organ roll, the sermon
   preached--just as the same things were going on three thousand five
   hundred miles off, at home! But then, the prayer in behalf of her
   majesty the Queen, somewhat threw me back. Nevertheless, I joined in
   that prayer, and invoked for the lady the best wishes of a poor Yankee.
   How I loved to sit in the holy hush of those brown old monastic aisles,
   thinking of Harry the Eighth, and the Reformation! How I loved to go a
   roving with my eye, all along the sculptured walls and buttresses;
   winding in among the intricacies of the pendent ceiling, and wriggling
   my fancied way like a wood-worm. I could have sat there all the morning
   long, through noon, unto night. But at last the benediction would come;
   and appropriating my share of it, I would slowly move away, thinking how
   I should like to go home with some of the portly old gentlemen, with
   high-polished boots and Malacca canes, and take a seat at their cosy and
   comfortable dinner-tables. But, alas! there was no dinner for me except
   at the sign of the Baltimore Clipper.
   Yet the Sunday dinners that Handsome Mary served up .were not to be
   scorned. The roast beef of Old England abounded; and so did the immortal
   plum-puddings, and the unspeakably capital gooseberry pies. But to
   finish off with that abominable "swipes" almost spoiled all the rest:
   not that I myself patronized "swipes" but my shipmates did; and every
   cup I saw them drink, I could not choose but taste in imagination, and
   even then the flavor was bad.
   On Sundays, at dinner-time, as, indeed, on every other day, it was
   curious to watch the proceedings at the sign of the Clipper. The servant
   girls were running about, mustering the various crews, whose dinners
   were spread, each in a separate apartment; and who were collectively
   known by the names of their ships.
   "Where are the Arethusas?--Here's their beef been smoking this
   half-hour."--"Fly, Betty, my dear, here come the Splendids."--"Run,
   Molly, my love; get the salt-cellars for the Highlanders."--"You Peggy,
   where's the Siddons' pickle-pat?"--"I say, Judy, are you never coming
   with that pudding for the Lord Nelsons?"
   On week days, we did not fare quite so well as on Sundays; and once we
   came to dinner, and found two enormous bullock hearts smoking at each
   end of the Highlanders' table. Jackson was indignant at the outrage.
   He always sat at the head of the table; and this time he squared himself
   on his bench, and erecting his knife and fork like flag-staffs, so as to
   include the two hearts between them, he called out for Danby, the
   boarding-house keeper; for although his wife Mary was in fact at the
   head of the establishment, yet Danby himself always came in for the
   fault-findings.
   Danby obsequiously appeared, and stood in the doorway, well knowing the
   philippics that were coming. But he was not prepared for the peroration
   of Jackson's address to him; which consisted of the two bullock hearts,
   snatched bodily off the dish, and flung at his head, by way of a
   recapitulation of the preceding arguments. The company then broke up in
   disgust, and dined elsewhere.
   Though I almost invariably attended church on Sunday mornings, yet the
   rest of the day I spent on my travels; and it was on one of these
   afternoon strolls, that on passing through St. George's-square, I found
   myself among a large crowd, gathered near the base of George the
   Fourth's equestrian statue.
   The people were mostly mechanics and artisans in their holiday clothes;
   but mixed with them were a good many soldiers, in lean, lank, and
   dinnerless undresses, and sporting attenuated rattans. These troops
   belonged to the various regiments then in town. Police officers, also,
   were conspicuous in their uniforms. At first perfect silence and decorum
   prevailed.
   Addressing this orderly throng was a pale, hollow-eyed young man, in a
   snuff-colored surtout, who looked worn with much watching, or much toil,
   or too little food. His features were good, his whole air was
   respectable, and there was no mistaking the fact, that he was strongly
   in earnest in what he was saying.
   In his hand was a soiled, inflammatory-looking pamphlet, from which he
   frequently read; following up the quotations with nervous appeals to his
   hearers, a rolling of his eyes, and sometimes the most frantic gestures.
   I was not long within hearing of him, before I became aware that this
   youth was a Chartist.
   Presently the crowd increased, and some commotion was raised, when I
   noticed the police officers augmenting in number; and by and by, they
   began to glide through the crowd, politely hinting at the propriety of
   dispersing. The first persons thus accosted were the soldiers, who
   accordingly sauntered off, switching their rattans, and admiring their
   high-polished shoes. It was plain that the Charter did not hang very
   heavy round their hearts. For the rest, they also gradually broke up;
   and at last I saw the speaker himself depart.
   I do not know why, but I thought he must be some despairing elder son,
   supporting by hard toil his mother and sisters; for of such many
   political desperadoes are made.
   That same Sunday afternoon, I strolled toward the outskirts of the town,
   and attracted by the sight of two great Pompey's pillars, in the shape
   of black steeples, apparently rising directly from the soil, I
   approached them with much curiosity. But looking over a low parapet
   connecting them, what was my surprise to behold at my feet a smoky
   hollow in the ground, with rocky walls, and dark holes at one end,
   carrying out of view several lines of iron railways; while far beyond,
   straight out toward the open country, ran an endless railroad. Over the
   place, a handsome Moorish arch of stone was flung; and gradually, as I
   gazed upon it, and at the little side arches at the bottom of the
   hollow, there came over me an undefinable feeling, that I had previously
   seen the whole thing before. Yet how could that be? Certainly, I had
   never been in Liverpool before: but then, that Moorish arch! surely I
   remembered that very well. It was not till several months after reaching
   home in America, that my perplexity upon this matter was cleared away.
   In glancing over an old number of the Penny Magazine, there I saw a
   picture of the place to the life; and remembered having seen the same
   print years previous. It was a representation of the spot where the
   Manchester railroad enters the outskirts of the town.
   XLII. HIS ADVENTURE WITH THE CROSS OLD GENTLEMAN
