   
   My adventure in the News-Room in the Exchange, which I have related in a
   previous chapter, reminds me of another, at the Lyceum, some days after,
   which may as well be put down here, before I forget it.
   I was strolling down Bold-street, I think it was, when I was struck by
   the sight of a brown stone building, very large and handsome. The
   windows were open, and there, nicely seated, with their comfortable legs
   crossed over their comfortable knees, I beheld several sedate,
   happy-looking old gentlemen reading the magazines and papers, and one
   had a fine gilded volume in his hand.
   Yes, this must be the Lyceum, thought I; let me see. So I whipped out my
   guide-book, and opened it at the proper place; and sure enough, the
   building before me corresponded stone for stone. I stood awhile on the
   opposite side of the street, gazing at my picture, and then at its
   original; and often dwelling upon the pleasant gentlemen sitting at the
   open windows; till at last I felt an uncontrollable impulse to step in
   for a moment, and run over the news.
   I'm a poor, friendless sailor-boy, thought I, and they can not object;
   especially as I am from a foreign land, and strangers ought to be
   treated with courtesy. I turned the matter over again, as I walked
   across the way; and with just a small tapping of a misgiving at my
   heart, I at last scraped my feet clean against the curb-stone, and
   taking off my hat while I was yet in the open air, slowly sauntered in.
   But I had not got far into that large and lofty room, filled with many
   agreeable sights, when a crabbed old gentleman lifted up his eye from
   the London Times, which words I saw boldly printed on the back of the
   large sheet in his hand, and looking at me as if I were a strange dog
   with a muddy hide, that had stolen out of the gutter into this fine
   apartment, he shook his silver-headed cane at me fiercely, till the
   spectacles fell off his nose. Almost at the same moment, up stepped a
   terribly cross man, who looked as if he had a mustard plaster on his
   back, that was continually exasperating him; who throwing down some
   papers which he had been filing, took me by my innocent shoulders, and
   then, putting his foot against the broad part of my pantaloons, wheeled
   me right out into the street, and dropped me on the walk, without so
   much as offering an apology for the affront. I sprang after him, but in
   vain; the door was closed upon me.
   These Englishmen have no manners, that's plain, thought I; and I trudged
   on down the street in a reverie.
   XLIII. HE TAKES A DELIGHTFUL RAMBLE INTO THE COUNTRY; AND MAKES THE
   ACQUAINTANCE OF THREE ADORABLE CHARMERS
   Who that dwells in America has not heard of the bright fields and green
   hedges of England, and longed to behold them? Even so had it been with
   me; and now that I was actually in England, I resolved not to go away
   without having a good, long look at the open fields.
   On a Sunday morning I started, with a lunch in my pocket. It was a
   beautiful day in July; the air was sweet with the breath of buds and
   flowers, and there was a green splendor in the landscape that ravished
   me. Soon I gained an elevation commanding a wide sweep of view; and
   meadow and mead, and woodland and hedge, were all around me.
   Ay, ay! this was old England, indeed! I had found it at last--there it
   was in the country! Hovering over the scene was a soft, dewy air, that
   seemed faintly tinged with the green of the grass; and I thought, as I
   breathed my breath, that perhaps I might be inhaling the very particles
   once respired by Rosamond the Fair.
   On I trudged along the London road--smooth as an entry floor--and every
   white cottage I passed, embosomed in honeysuckles, seemed alive in the
   landscape.
   But the day wore on; and at length the sun grew hot; and the long road
   became dusty. I thought that some shady place, in some shady field,
   would be very pleasant to repose in. So, coming to a charming little
   dale, undulating down to a hollow, arched over with foliage, I crossed
   over toward it; but paused by the road-side at a frightful announcement,
   nailed against an old tree, used as a gate-post--
       "man-traps and spring-guns!"
   In America I had never heard of the like. What could it mean? They were
   not surely cannibals, that dwelt down in that beautiful little dale, and
   lived by catching men, like weasels and beavers in Canada!
   "A man-trap!" It must be so. The announcement could bear but one
   meaning--that there was something near by, intended to catch human
   beings; some species of mechanism, that would suddenly fasten upon the
   unwary rover, and hold him by the leg like a dog; or, perhaps, devour
   him on the spot.
