   
   I won't sell my gun to that man, thought I; and I passed on to the next
   hole; and while waiting there to be served, an elderly man in a
   high-waisted surtout, thrust a silver snuff-box through; and a young man
   in a calico shirt and a shiny coat with a velvet collar presented a
   silver watch; and a sheepish boy in a cloak took out a frying-pan; and
   another little boy had a Bible; and all these things were thrust through
   to the hook-nosed man, who seemed ready to hook any thing that came
   along; so I had no doubt he would gladly hook my gun, for the long
   picketed counter seemed like a great seine, that caught every variety of
   fish.
   At last I saw a chance, and crowded in for the hole; and in order to be
   beforehand with a big man who just then came in, I pushed my gun
   violently through the hole; upon which the hook-nosed man cried out,
   thinking I was going to shoot him. But at last he took the gun, turned
   it end for end, clicked the trigger three times, and then said, "one
   dollar."
   "What about one dollar?" said I.
   "That's all I'll give," he replied.
   "Well, what do you want?" and he turned to the next person. This was a
   young man in a seedy red cravat and a pimply face, that looked as if it
   was going to seed likewise, who, with a mysterious tapping of his
   vest-pocket and other hints, made a great show of having something
   confidential to communicate.
   But the hook-nosed man spoke out very loud, and said, "None of that;
   take it out. Got a stolen watch? We don't deal in them things here."
   Upon this the young man flushed all over, and looked round to see who
   had heard the pawnbroker; then he took something very small out of his
   pocket, and keeping it hidden under his palm, pushed it into the hole.
   "Where did you get this ring?" said the pawnbroker.
   "I want to pawn it," whispered the other, blushing all over again.
   "What's your name?" said the pawnbroker, speaking very loud.
   "How much will you give?" whispered the other in reply, leaning over,
   and looking as if he wanted to hush up the pawnbroker.
   At last the sum was agreed upon, when the man behind the counter took a
   little ticket, and tying the ring to it began to write on the ticket;
   all at once he asked the young man where he lived, a question which
   embarrassed him very much; but at last he stammered out a certain number
   in Broadway.
   "That's the City Hotel: you don't live there," said the man, cruelly
   glancing at the shabby coat before him.
   "Oh! well," stammered the other blushing scarlet, "I thought this was
   only a sort of form to go through; I don't like to tell where I do live,
   for I ain't in the habit of going to pawnbrokers."
   "You stole that ring, you know you did," roared out the hook-nosed man,
   incensed at this slur upon his calling, and now seemingly bent on
   damaging the young man's character for life. "I'm a good mind to call a.
   constable; we don't take stolen goods here, I tell you."
   All eyes were now fixed suspiciously upon this martyrized young man; who
   looked ready to drop into the earth; and a poor woman in a night-cap,
   with some baby-clothes in her hand, looked fearfully at the
   pawnbroker, as if dreading to encounter such a terrible pattern of
   integrity. At last the young man sunk off with his money, and looking
   out of the window, I saw him go round the corner so sharply that he
   knocked his elbow against the wall.
   I waited a little longer, and saw several more served; and having
   remarked that the hook-nosed men invariably fixed their own price upon
   every thing, and if that was refused told the person to be off with
   himself; I concluded that it would be of no use to try and get more from
   them than they had offered; especially when I saw that they had a great
   many fowling-pieces hanging up, and did not have particular occasion for
   mine; and more than that, they must be very well off and rich, to treat
   people so cavalierly.
   My best plan then seemed to be to go right back to the curly-headed
   pawnbroker, and take up with my first offer. But when I went back, the
   curly-headed man was very busy about something else, and kept me
   waiting a long time; at last I got a chance and told him I would take
   the three dollars he had offered.
   "Ought to have taken it when you could get it," he replied. "I won't
   give but two dollars and a half for it now."
   In vain I expostulated; he was not to be moved, so I pocketed the money
   and departed.
