   
   Incredible! In a Christian land, too! Did that sweet lady, Queen
   Victoria, permit such diabolical practices? Had her gracious majesty
   ever passed by this way, and seen the announcement?
   And who put it there?
   The proprietor, probably.
   And what right had he to do so?
   Why, he owned the soil.
   And where are his title-deeds?
   In his strong-box, I suppose.
   Thus I stood wrapt in cogitations.
   You are a pretty fellow, Wellingborough, thought I to myself; you are a
   mighty traveler, indeed:--stopped on your travels by a man-trap! Do you
   think Mungo Park was so served in Africa? Do you think Ledyard was so
   entreated in Siberia? Upon my word, you will go home not very much wiser
   than when you set out; and the only excuse you can give, for not having
   seen more sights, will be man-traps--mantraps, my masters! that
   frightened you!
   And then, in my indignation, I fell back upon first principles. What
   right has this man to the soil he thus guards with dragons? What
   excessive effrontery, to lay sole claim to a solid piece of this planet,
   right down to the earth's axis, and, perhaps, straight through to the
   antipodes! For a moment I thought I would test his traps, and enter the
   forbidden Eden.
   But the grass grew so thickly, and seemed so full of sly things, that at
   last I thought best to pace off.
   Next, I came to a hawthorn lane, leading down very prettily to a nice
   little church; a mossy little church; a beautiful little church; just
   such a church as I had always dreamed to be in England. The porch was
   viny as an arbor; the ivy was climbing about the tower; and the bees
   were humming about the hoary old head-stones along the walls.
   Any man-traps here? thought I--any spring-guns?
   No.
   So I walked on, and entered the church, where I soon found a seat. No
   Indian, red as a deer, could have startled the simple people more. They
   gazed and they gazed; but as I was all attention to the sermon, and
   conducted myself with perfect propriety, they did not expel me, as at
   first I almost imagined they might.
   Service over, I made my way through crowds of children, who stood
   staring at the marvelous stranger, and resumed my stroll along the
   London Road.
   My next stop was at an inn, where under a tree sat a party of rustics,
   drinking ale at a table.
   "Good day," said I.
   "Good day; from Liverpool?"
   "I guess so."
