   
   "For London?"
   "No; not this time. I merely come to see the country."
   At this, they gazed at each other; and I, at myself; having doubts
   whether I might not look something like a horse-thief.
   "Take a seat," said the landlord, a fat fellow, with his wife's apron
   on, I thought.
   "Thank you."
   And then, little by little, we got into a long talk: in the course of
   which, I told who I was, and where I was from. I found these rustics a
   good-natured, jolly set; and I have no doubt they found me quite a
   sociable youth. They treated me to ale; and I treated them to stories
   about America, concerning which, they manifested the utmost curiosity.
   One of them, however, was somewhat astonished that I had not made the
   acquaintance of a brother of his, who had resided somewhere on the banks
   of the Mississippi for several years past; but among twenty millions of
   people, I had never happened to meet him, at least to my knowledge.
   At last, leaving this party, I pursued my way, exhilarated by the lively
   conversation in which I had shared, and the pleasant sympathies
   exchanged: and perhaps, also, by the ale I had drunk:--fine old ale; yes,
   English ale, ale brewed in England! And I trod English soil; and
   breathed English air; and every blade of grass was an Englishman born.
   Smoky old Liverpool, with all its pitch and tar was now far behind;
   nothing in sight but open meadows and fields.
   Come, Wellingborough, why not push on for London?--Hurra! what say you?
   let's have a peep at St. Paul's I Don't you want to see the queen? Have
   you no longing to behold the duke? Think of Westminster Abbey, and the
   Tunnel under the Thames! Think of Hyde Park, and the ladies!
   But then, thought I again, with my hands wildly groping in my two
   vacuums of pockets--who's to pay the bill?--You can't beg your way,
   Wellingborough; that would never do; for you are your father's son,
   Wellingborough; and you must not disgrace your family in a foreign land;
   you must not turn pauper.
   Ah! Ah! it was indeed too true; there was no St. Paul's or Westminster
   Abbey for me; that was flat.
   Well, well, up heart, you'll see it one of these days.
   But think of it! here I am on the very road that leads to the
   Thames--think of that!--here I am--ay, treading in the wheel-tracks of
   coaches that are bound for the metropolis!--It was too bad; too bitterly
   bad. But I shoved my old hat over my brows, and walked on; till at last
   I came to a green bank, deliriously shaded by a fine old tree with broad
   branching arms, that stretched themselves over the road, like a hen
   gathering her brood under her wings. Down on the green grass I threw
   myself and there lay my head, like a last year's nut. People passed by,
   on foot and in carriages, and little thought that the sad youth under
   the tree was the great-nephew of a late senator in the American
   Congress.
   Presently, I started to my feet, as I heard a gruff voice behind me from
   the field, crying out--"What are you doing there, you young rascal?--run
   away from the work'us, have ye? Tramp, or I'll set Blucher on ye!"
   And who was Blucher? A cut-throat looking dog, with his black
   bull-muzzle thrust through a gap in the hedge. And his master? A sturdy
   farmer, with an alarming cudgel in his hand.
   "Come, are you going to start?" he cried.
   "Presently," said I, making off with great dispatch. When I had got a
   few yards into the middle of the highroad (which belonged as much to me
   as it did to the queen herself), I turned round, like a man on his own
   premises, and said--"Stranger! if you ever Visit America, just call at
   our house, and you'll always find there a dinner and a bed. Don't fail."
   I then walked on toward Liverpool, full of sad thoughts concerning the
   cold charities of the world, and the infamous reception given to hapless
   young travelers, in broken-down shooting-jackets.
   On, on I went, along the skirts of forbidden green fields; until
   reaching a cottage, before which I stood rooted.
   So sweet a place I had never seen: no palace in Persia could be
   pleasanter; there were flowers in the garden; and six red cheeks, like
   six moss-roses, hanging from the casement. At the embowered doorway, sat
   an old man, confidentially communing with his pipe: while a little
   child, sprawling on the ground, was playing with his shoestrings. A hale
   matron, but with rather a prim expression, was reading a journal by his
   side: and three charmers, three Peris, three Houris! were leaning out of
   the window close by.
   Ah! Wellingborough, don't you wish you could step in?
