   
   With a heavy heart at his cheerful sigh, I was turning to go, when--is it
   possible? the old man called me back, and invited me in.
   "Come, come," said he, "you look as if you had walked far; come, take a
   bowl of milk. Matilda, my dear" (how my heart jumped), "go fetch some
   from the dairy." And the white-handed angel did meekly obey, and handed
   me--me, the vagabond, a bowl of bubbling milk, which I could hardly drink
   down, for gazing at the dew on her lips.
   As I live, I could have married that charmer on the spot!
   She was by far the most beautiful rosebud I had yet seen in England. But
   I endeavored to dissemble my ardent admiration; and in order to do away
   at once with any unfavorable impressions arising from the close scrutiny
   of my miserable shooting-jacket, which was now taking place, I declared
   myself a Yankee sailor from Liverpool, who was spending a Sunday in the
   country.
   "And have you been to church to-day, young man?" said the old lady,
   looking daggers.
   "Good madam, I have; the little church down yonder, you know--a most
   excellent sermon--I am much the better for it."
   I wanted to mollify this severe looking old lady; for even my short
   experience of old ladies had convinced me that they are the hereditary
   enemies of all strange young men.
   I soon turned the conversation toward America, a theme which I knew
   would be interesting, and upon which I could be fluent and agreeable. I
   strove to talk in Addisonian English, and ere long could see very
   plainly that my polished phrases were making a surprising impression,
   though that miserable shooting-jacket of mine was a perpetual drawback
   to my claims to gentility.
   Spite of all my blandishments, however, the old lady stood her post like
   a sentry; and to my inexpressible chagrin, kept the three charmers in
   the background, though the old man frequently called upon them to
   advance. This fine specimen of an old Englishman seemed to be quite as
   free from ungenerous suspicions as his vinegary spouse was full of them.
   But I still lingered, snatching furtive glances at the young ladies, and
   vehemently talking to the old man about Illinois, and the river Ohio,
   and the fine farms in the Genesee country, where, in harvest time, the
   laborers went into the wheat fields a thousand strong.
   Stick to it, Wellingborough, thought I; don't give the old lady time to
   think; stick to it, my boy, and an invitation to tea will reward you. At
   last it came, and the old lady abated her frowns.
   It was the most delightful of meals; the three charmers sat all on one
   side, and I opposite, between the old man and his wife. The middle
   charmer poured out the souchong, and handed me the buttered muffins; and
   such buttered muffins never were spread on the other side of the
   Atlantic. The butter had an aromatic flavor; by Jove, it was perfectly
   delicious.
   And there they sat--the charmers, I mean--eating these buttered muffins in
   plain sight. I wished I was a buttered muffin myself. Every minute they
   grew handsomer and handsomer; and I could not help thinking what a fine
   thing it would be to carry home a beautiful English wife! how my friends
   would stare! a lady from England!
   I might have been mistaken; but certainly I thought that Matilda, the
   one who had handed me the milk, sometimes looked rather benevolently in
   the direction where I sat. She certainly did look at my jacket; and I am
   constrained to think at my face. Could it be possible she had fallen in
   love at first sight? Oh, rapture! But oh, misery! that was out of the
   question; for what a looking suitor was Wellingborough?
   At length, the old lady glanced toward the door, and made some
   observations about its being yet a long walk to town. She handed me the
   buttered muffins, too, as if performing a final act of hospitality; and
   in other fidgety ways vaguely hinted her desire that I should decamp.
   Slowly I rose, and murmured my thanks, and bowed, and tried to be off;
   but as quickly I turned, and bowed, and thanked, and lingered again and
   again. Oh, charmers! oh, Peris! thought I, must I go? Yes,
   Wellingborough, you must; so I made one desperate congee, and darted
   through the door.
   I have never seen them since: no, nor heard of them; but to this day I
   live a bachelor on account of those ravishing charmers.
   As the long twilight was waning deeper and deeper into the night, I
   entered the town; and, plodding my solitary way to the same old docks, I
   passed through the gates, and scrambled my way among tarry smells,
   across the tiers of ships between the quay and the Highlander. My only
   resource was my bunk; in I turned, and, wearied with my long stroll, was
   soon fast asleep, dreaming of red cheeks and roses.
