   
   XLIV. REDBURN INTRODUCES MASTER HARRY BOLTON TO THE FAVORABLE
   CONSIDERATION OF THE READER
   It was the day following my Sunday stroll into the country, and when I
   had been in England four weeks or more, that I made the acquaintance of
   a handsome, accomplished, but unfortunate youth, young Harry Bolton. He
   was one of those small, but perfectly formed beings, with curling hair,
   and silken muscles, who seem to have been born in cocoons. His
   complexion was a mantling brunette, feminine as a girl's; his feet were
   small; his hands were white; and his eyes were large, black, and
   womanly; and, poetry aside, his voice was as the sound of a harp.
   But where, among the tarry docks, and smoky sailor-lanes and by-ways of
   a seaport, did I, a battered Yankee boy, encounter this courtly youth?
   Several evenings I had noticed him in our street of boarding-houses,
   standing in the doorways, and silently regarding the animated scenes
   without. His beauty, dress, and manner struck me as so out of place in
   such a street, that I could not possibly divine what had transplanted
   this delicate exotic from the conservatories of some Regent-street to
   the untidy potato-patches of Liverpool.
   At last I suddenly encountered him at the sign of the Baltimore Clipper.
   He was speaking to one of my shipmates concerning America; and from
   something that dropped, I was led to imagine that he contemplated a
   voyage to my country. Charmed with his appearance, and all eagerness to
   enjoy the society of this incontrovertible son of a gentleman--a kind of
   pleasure so long debarred me--I smoothed down the skirts of my jacket,
   and at once accosted him; declaring who I was, and that nothing would
   afford me greater delight than to be of the least service, in imparting
   any information concerning America that he needed.
   He glanced from my face to my jacket, and from my jacket to my face, and
   at length, with a pleased but somewhat puzzled expression, begged me to
   accompany him on a walk.
   We rambled about St. George's Pier until nearly midnight; but before we
   parted, with uncommon frankness, he told me many strange things
   respecting his history.
   According to his own account, Harry Bolton was a native of Bury St.
   Edmunds, a borough of Suffolk, not very far from London, where he was
   early left an orphan, under the charge of an only aunt. Between his aunt
   and himself, his mother had divided her fortune; and young Harry thus
   fell heir to a portion of about five thousand pounds.
   Being of a roving mind, as he approached his majority he grew restless
   of the retirement of a country place; especially as he had no profession
   or business of any kind to engage his attention.
   In vain did Bury, with all its fine old monastic attractions, lure him
   to abide on the beautiful banks of her Larke, and under the shadow of
   her stately and storied old Saxon tower.
   By all my rare old historic associations, breathed Bury; by my
   Abbey-gate, that bears to this day the arms of Edward the Confessor; by
   my carved roof of the old church of St. Mary's, which escaped the low
   rage of the bigoted Puritans; by the royal ashes of Mary Tudor, that
   sleep in my midst; by my Norman ruins, and by all the old abbots of
   Bury, do not, oh Harry! abandon me. Where will you find shadier walks
   than under my lime-trees? where lovelier gardens than those within the
   old walls of my monastery, approached through my lordly Gate? Or if, oh
   Harry! indifferent to my historic mosses, and caring not for my annual
   verdure, thou must needs be lured by other tassels, and wouldst fain,
   like the Prodigal, squander thy patrimony, then, go not away from old
   Bury to do it. For here, on Angel-Hill, are my coffee and card-rooms,
   and billiard saloons, where you may lounge away your mornings, and empty
   your glass and your purse as you list.
   In vain. Bury was no place for the adventurous Harry, who must needs hie
   to London, where in one winter, in the company of gambling sportsmen and
   dandies, he lost his last sovereign.
   What now was to be done? His friends made interest for him in the
   requisite quarters, and Harry was soon embarked for Bombay, as a
   midshipman in the East India service; in which office he was known as a
   "guinea-pig," a humorous appellation then bestowed upon the middies of
   the Company. And considering the perversity of his behavior, his
   delicate form, and soft complexion, and that gold guineas had been his
   bane, this appellation was not altogether, in poor Harry's case,
   inapplicable.
   He made one voyage, and returned; another, and returned; and then threw
   up his warrant in disgust. A few weeks' dissipation in London, and again
   his purse was almost drained; when, like many prodigals, scorning to
   return home to his aunt, and amend--though she had often written him the
   kindest of letters to that effect--Harry resolved to precipitate himself
   upon the New World, and there carve out a fresh fortune. With this
   object in view, he packed his trunks, and took the first train for
   Liverpool. Arrived in that town, he at once betook himself to the docks,
   to examine the American shipping, when a new crotchet entered his brain,
   born of his old sea reminiscences. It was to assume duck browsers and
   tarpaulin, and gallantly cross the Atlantic as a sailor. There was a
   dash of romance in it; a taking abandonment; and scorn of fine coats,
   which exactly harmonized with his reckless contempt, at the time, for
   all past conventionalities.
   Thus determined, he exchanged his trunk for a mahogany chest; sold some
   of his superfluities; and moved his quarters to the sign of the Gold
   Anchor in Union-street.
   After making his acquaintance, and learning his intentions, I was all
   anxiety that Harry should accompany me home in the Highlander, a desire
   to which he warmly responded.
   Nor was I without strong hopes that he would succeed in an application
   to the captain; inasmuch as during our stay in the docks, three of our
   crew had left us, and their places would remain unsupplied till just
   upon the eve of our departure.
   And here, it may as well be related, that owing to the heavy charges to
   which the American ships long staying in Liverpool are subjected, from
   the obligation to continue the wages of their seamen, when they have
   little or no work to employ them, and from the necessity of boarding
   them ashore, like lords, at their leisure, captains interested in the
   ownership of their vessels, are not at all indisposed to let their
   sailors abscond, if they please, and thus forfeit their money; for they
   well know that, when wanted, a new crew is easily to be procured,
   through the crimps of the port.
   Though he spake English with fluency, and from his long service in the
   vessels of New York, was almost an American to behold, yet Captain Riga
   was in fact a Russian by birth, though this was a fact that he strove to
   conceal. And though extravagant in his personal expenses, and even
   indulging in luxurious habits, costly as Oriental dissipation, yet
   Captain Riga was a niggard to others; as, indeed, was evinced in the
   magnificent stipend of three dollars, with which he requited my own
   valuable services. Therefore, as it was agreed between Harry and me,
   that he should offer to ship as a "boy," at the same rate of
   compensation with myself, I made no doubt that, incited by the cheapness
   of the bargain, Captain Riga would gladly close with him; and thus,
   instead of paying sixteen dollars a month to a thorough-going tar, who
   would consume all his rations, buy up my young blade of Bury, at the
   rate of half a dollar a week; with the cheering prospect, that by the
   end of the voyage, his fastidious palate would be the means of leaving
   a. handsome balance of salt beef and pork in the harness-cask.
