   
   With part of the money obtained by the sale of a few of his velvet
   vests, Harry, by my advice, now rigged himself in a Guernsey frock and
   man-of-war browsers; and thus equipped, he made his appearance, one fine
   morning, on the quarterdeck of the Highlander, gallantly doffing his
   virgin tarpaulin before the redoubtable Riga.
   No sooner were his wishes made known, than I perceived in the captain's
   face that same bland, benevolent, and bewitchingly merry expression,
   that had so charmed, but deceived me, when, with Mr. Jones, I had first
   accosted him in the cabin.
   Alas, Harry! thought I,--as I stood upon the forecastle looking astern
   where they stood,--that "gallant, gay deceiver" shall not altogether
   cajole you, if Wellingborough can help it. Rather than that should be
   the case, indeed, I would forfeit the pleasure of your society across
   the Atlantic.
   At this interesting interview the captain expressed a sympathetic
   concern touching the sad necessities, which he took upon himself to
   presume must have driven Harry to sea; he confessed to a warm interest
   in his future welfare; and did not hesitate to declare that, in going to
   America, under such circumstances, to seek his fortune, he was acting a
   manly and spirited part; and that the voyage thither, as a sailor, would
   be an invigorating preparative to the landing upon a shore, where he
   must battle out his fortune with Fate.
   He engaged him at once; but was sorry to say, that he could not provide
   him a home on board till the day previous to the sailing of the ship;
   and during the interval, he could not honor any drafts upon the strength
   of his wages.
   However, glad enough to conclude the agreement upon any terms at all, my
   young blade of Bury expressed his satisfaction; and full of admiration
   at so urbane and gentlemanly a sea-captain, he came forward to receive
   my congratulations.
   "Harry," said I, "be not deceived by the fascinating Riga--that gay
   Lothario of all inexperienced, sea-going youths, from the capital or the
   country; he has a Janus-face, Harry; and you will not know him when he
   gets you out of sight of land, and mouths his cast-off coats and
   browsers. For then he is another personage altogether, and adjusts his
   character to the shabbiness of his integuments. No more condolings and
   sympathy then; no more blarney; he will hold you a little better than
   his boots, and would no more think of addressing you than of invoking
   wooden Donald, the figure-head on our bows."
   And I further admonished my friend concerning our crew, particularly of
   the diabolical Jackson, and warned him to be cautious and wary. I told
   him, that unless he was somewhat accustomed to the rigging, and could
   furl a royal in a squall, he would be sure to subject himself to a sort
   of treatment from the sailors, in the last degree ignominious to any
   mortal who had ever crossed his legs under mahogany.
   And I played the inquisitor, in cross-questioning Harry respecting the
   precise degree in which he was a practical sailor;--whether he had a
   giddy head; whether his arms could bear the weight of his body; whether,
   with but one hand on a shroud, a hundred feet aloft in a tempest, he
   felt he could look right to windward and beard it.
   To all this, and much more, Harry rejoined with the most off-hand and
   confident air; saying that in his "guinea-pig" days, he had often climbed
   the masts and handled the sails in a gentlemanly and amateur way; so he
   made no doubt that he would very soon prove an expert tumbler in the
   Highlander's rigging.
   His levity of manner, and sanguine assurance, coupled with the constant
   sight of his most unseamanlike person--more suited to the Queen's
   drawing-room than a ship's forecastle-bred many misgivings in my mind.
   But after all, every one in this world has his own fate intrusted to
   himself; and though we may warn, and forewarn, and give sage advice, and
   indulge in many apprehensions touching our friends; yet our friends, for
   the most part, will "gang their ain gate;" and the most we can do is, to
   hope for the best. Still, I suggested to Harry, whether he had not best
   cross the sea as a steerage passenger, since he could procure enough
   money for that; but no, he was bent upon going as a sailor.
   I now had a comrade in my afternoon strolls, and Sunday excursions; and
   as Harry was a generous fellow, he shared with me his purse and his
   heart. He sold off several more of his fine vests and browsers, his
   silver-keyed flute and enameled guitar; and a portion of the money thus
   furnished was pleasantly spent in refreshing ourselves at the road-side
   inns in the vicinity of the town.
   Reclining side by side in some agreeable nook, we exchanged our
   experiences of the past. Harry enlarged upon the fascinations of a
   London Me; described the curricle he used to drive in Hyde Park; gave me
   the measurement of Madame Vestris' ankle; alluded to his first
   introduction at a club to the madcap Marquis of Waterford; told over the
   sums he had lost upon the turf on a Derby day; and made various but
   enigmatical allusions to a certain Lady Georgiana Theresa, the noble
   daughter of an anonymous earl.
   Even in conversation, Harry was a prodigal; squandering his aristocratic
   narrations with a careless hand; and, perhaps, sometimes spending funds
   of reminiscences not his own.
   As for me, I had only my poor old uncle the senator to fall back upon;
   and I used him upon all emergencies, like the knight in the game of
   chess; making him hop about, and stand stiffly up to the encounter,
   against all my fine comrade's array of dukes, lords, curricles, and
   countesses.
   In these long talks of ours, I frequently expressed the earnest desire I
   cherished, to make a visit to London; and related how strongly tempted I
   had been one Sunday, to walk the whole way, without a penny in my
   pocket. To this, Harry rejoined, that nothing would delight him more,
   than to show me the capital; and he even meaningly but mysteriously
   hinted at the possibility of his doing so, before many days had passed.
   But this seemed so idle a thought, that I only imputed it to my friend's
   good-natured, rattling disposition, which sometimes prompted him to out
   with any thing, that he thought would be agreeable. Besides, would this
   fine blade of Bury be seen, by his aristocratic acquaintances, walking
   down Oxford-street, say, arm in arm with the sleeve of my
   shooting-jacket? The thing was preposterous; and I began to think, that
   Harry, after all, was a little bit disposed to impose upon my Yankee
   credulity.
   Luckily, my Bury blade had no acquaintance in Liverpool, where, indeed,
   he was as much in a foreign land, as if he were already on the shores of
   Lake Erie; so that he strolled about with me in perfect abandonment;
   reckless of the cut of my shooting-jacket; and not caring one whit who
   might stare at so singular a couple.
   But once, crossing a square, faced on one side by a fashionable hotel,
   he made a rapid turn with me round a corner; and never stopped, till the
   square was a good block in our rear. The cause of this sudden retreat,
   was a remarkably elegant coat and pantaloons, standing upright on the
   hotel steps, and containing a young buck, tapping his teeth with an
   ivory-headed riding-whip.
   "Who was he, Harry?" said I.
   "My old chum, Lord Lovely," said Harry, with a careless air, "and Heaven
   only knows what brings Lovely from London."
