   
   "A lord?" said I starting; "then I must look at him again;" for lords
   are very scarce in Liverpool.
   Unmindful of my companion's remonstrances, I ran back to the corner; and
   slowly promenaded past the upright coat and pantaloons on the steps.
   It was not much of a lord to behold; very thin and limber about the
   legs, with small feet like a doll's, and a small, glossy head like a
   seal's. I had seen just such looking lords standing in sentimental
   attitudes in front of Palmo's in Broadway.
   However, he and I being mutual friends of Harry's, I thought something
   of accosting him, and taking counsel concerning what was best to be done
   for the young prodigal's welfare; but upon second thoughts I thought
   best not to intrude; especially, as just then my lord Lovely stepped to
   the open window of a flashing carriage which drew up; and throwing
   himself into an interesting posture, with the sole of one boot
   vertically exposed, so as to show the stamp on it--a coronet--fell into a
   sparkling conversation with a magnificent white satin hat, surmounted by
   a regal marabou feather, inside.
   I doubted not, this lady was nothing short of a peeress; and thought it
   would be one of the pleasantest and most charming things in the world,
   just to seat myself beside her, and order the coachman to take us a
   drive into the country.
   But, as upon further consideration, I imagined that the peeress might
   decline the honor of my company, since I had no formal card of
   introduction; I marched on, and rejoined my companion, whom I at once
   endeavored to draw out, touching Lord Lovely; but he only made
   mysterious answers; and turned off the conversation, by allusions to his
   visits to Ickworth in Suffolk, the magnificent seat of the Most Noble
   Marquis of Bristol, who had repeatedly assured Harry that he might
   consider Ickworth his home.
   Now, all these accounts of marquises and Ickworths, and Harry's having
   been hand in glove with so many lords and ladies, began to breed some
   suspicions concerning the rigid morality of my friend, as a teller of
   the truth. But, after all, thought I to myself, who can prove that Harry
   has fibbed? Certainly, his manners are polished, he has a mighty easy
   address; and there is nothing altogether impossible about his having
   consorted with the master of Ickworth, and the daughter of the anonymous
   earl. And what right has a poor Yankee, like me, to insinuate the
   slightest suspicion against what he says? What little money he has, he
   spends freely; he can not be a polite blackleg, for I am no pigeon to
   pluck; so that is out of the question;--perish such a thought, concerning
   my own bosom friend!
   But though I drowned all my suspicions as well as I could, and ever
   cherished toward Harry a heart, loving and true; yet, spite of all this,
   I never could entirely digest some of his imperial reminiscences of high
   life. I was very sorry for this; as at times it made me feel ill at ease
   in his company; and made me hold back my whole soul from him; when, in
   its loneliness, it was yearning to throw itself into the unbounded bosom
   of some immaculate friend.
   XLV. HARRY BOLTON KIDNAPS REDBURN, AND CARRIES HIM OFF TO LONDON
   It might have been a week after our glimpse of Lord Lovely, that Harry,
   who had been expecting a letter, which, he told me, might possibly alter
   his plans, one afternoon came bounding on board the ship, and sprang
   down the hatchway into the between-decks, where, in perfect solitude, I
   was engaged picking oakum; at which business the mate had set me, for
   want of any thing better.
   "Hey for London, Wellingborough!" he cried. "Off tomorrow! first
   train--be there the same night--come! I have money to rig you all out--drop
   that hangman's stuff there, and away! Pah! how it smells here! Come; up
   you jump!"
   I trembled with amazement and delight.
   London? it could not be!--and Harry--how kind of him! he was then indeed
   what he seemed. But instantly I thought of all the circumstances of the
   case, and was eager to know what it was that had induced this sudden
   departure.
   In reply my friend told me, that he had received a remittance, and had
   hopes of recovering a considerable sum, lost in some way that he chose
   to conceal.
   "But how am I to leave the ship, Harry?" said I; "they will not let me
   go, will they? You had better leave me behind, after all; I don't care
   very much about going; and besides, I have no money to share the
   expenses."
   This I said, only pretending indifference, for my heart was jumping all
   the time.
