   
   "Tut! my Yankee bantam," said Harry; "look here!" and he showed me a
   handful of gold.
   "But they are yours, and not mine, Harry," said I.
   "Yours and mine, my sweet fellow," exclaimed Harry. "Come, sink the
   ship, and let's go!"
   "But you don't consider, if I quit the ship, they'll be sending a
   constable after me, won't they?"
   "What! and do you think, then, they value your services so highly? Ha!
   ha!-Up, up, Wellingborough: I can't wait."
   True enough. I well knew that Captain Riga would not trouble himself
   much, if I did take French leave of him. So, without further thought of
   the matter, I told Harry to wait a few moments, till the ship's bell
   struck four; at which time I used to go to supper, and be free for the
   rest of the day.
   The bell struck; and off we went. As we hurried across the quay, and
   along the dock walls, I asked Harry all about his intentions. He said,
   that go to London he must, and to Bury St. Edmunds; but that whether he
   should for any time remain at either place, he could not now tell; and
   it was by no means impossible, that in less than a week's time we would
   be back again in Liverpool, and ready for sea. But all he said was
   enveloped in a mystery that I did not much like; and I hardly know
   whether I have repeated correctly what he said at the time.
   Arrived at the Golden Anchor, where Harry put up, he at once led me to
   his room, and began turning over the contents of his chest, to see what
   clothing he might have, that would fit me.
   Though he was some years my senior, we were about the same size--if any
   thing, I was larger than he; so, with a little stretching, a shirt,
   vest, and pantaloons were soon found to suit. As for a coat and hat,
   those Harry ran out and bought without delay; returning with a loose,
   stylish sack-coat, and a sort of foraging cap, very neat, genteel, and
   unpretending.
   My friend himself soon doffed his Guernsey frock, and stood before me,
   arrayed in a perfectly plain suit, which he had bought on purpose that
   very morning. I asked him why he had gone to that unnecessary expense,
   when he had plenty of other clothes in his chest. But he only winked,
   and looked knowing. This, again, I did not like. But I strove to drown
   ugly thoughts.
   Till quite dark, we sat talking together; when, locking his chest, and
   charging his landlady to look after it well, till he called, or sent for
   it; Harry seized my arm, and we sallied into the street.
   Pursuing our way through crowds of frolicking sailors and fiddlers, we
   turned into a street leading to the Exchange. There, under the shadow of
   the colonnade, Harry told me to stop, while he left me, and went to
   finish his toilet. Wondering what he meant, I stood to one side; and
   presently was joined by a stranger in whiskers and mustache.
   "It's me" said the stranger; and who was me but Harry, who had thus
   metamorphosed himself? I asked him the reason; and in a faltering voice,
   which I tried to make humorous, expressed a hope that he was not going
   to turn gentleman forger.
   He laughed, and assured me that it was only a precaution against being
   recognized by his own particular friends in London, that he had adopted
   this mode of disguising himself.
   "And why afraid of your friends?" asked I, in astonishment, "and we are
   not in London yet."
   "Pshaw! what a Yankee you are, Wellingborough. Can't you see very
   plainly that I have a plan in my head? And this disguise is only for a
   short time, you know. But I'll tell you all by and by."
   I acquiesced, though not feeling at ease; and we walked on, till we came
   to a public house, in the vicinity of the place at which the cars are
   taken.
   We stopped there that night, and next day were off, whirled along
   through boundless landscapes of villages, and meadows, and parks: and
   over arching viaducts, and through wonderful tunnels; till, half
   delirious with excitement, I found myself dropped down in the evening
   among gas-lights, under a great roof in Euston Square.
   London at last, and in the West-End!
