   
   XLVI. A MYSTERIOUS NIGHT IN LONDON
   "No time to lose," said Harry, "come along."
   He called a cab: in an undertone mentioned the number of a house in some
   street to the driver; we jumped in, and were off.
   As we rattled over the boisterous pavements, past splendid squares,
   churches, and shops, our cabman turning corners like a skater on the
   ice, and all the roar of London in my ears, and no end to the walls of
   brick and mortar; I thought New York a hamlet, and Liverpool a
   coal-hole, and myself somebody else: so unreal seemed every thing about
   me. My head was spinning round like a top, and my eyes ached with much
   gazing; particularly about the comers, owing to my darting them so
   rapidly, first this side, and then that, so as not to miss any thing;
   though, in truth, I missed much.
   "Stop," cried Harry, after a long while, putting his head out of the
   window, all at once--"stop! do you hear, you deaf man? you have passed
   the house--No. 40 I told you--that's it--the high steps there, with the
   purple light!"
   The cabman being paid, Harry adjusting his whiskers and mustache, and
   bidding me assume a lounging look, pushed his hat a little to one side,
   and then locking arms, we sauntered into the house; myself feeling not a
   little abashed; it was so long since I had been in any courtly society.
   It was some semi-public place of opulent entertainment; and far
   surpassed any thing of the kind I had ever seen before.
   The floor was tesselated with snow-white, and russet-hued marbles; and
   echoed to the tread, as if all the Paris catacombs were underneath. I
   started with misgivings at that hollow, boding sound, which seemed
   sighing with a subterraneous despair, through all the magnificent
   spectacle around me; mocking it, where most it glared.
   The walk were painted so as to deceive the eye with interminable
   colonnades; and groups of columns of the finest Scagliola work of
   variegated marbles--emerald-green and gold, St. Pons veined with silver,
   Sienna with porphyry--supported a resplendent fresco ceiling, arched like
   a bower, and thickly clustering with mimic grapes. Through all the East
   of this foliage, you spied in a crimson dawn, Guide's ever youthful
   Apollo, driving forth the horses of the sun. From sculptured stalactites
   of vine-boughs, here and there pendent hung galaxies of gas lights,
   whose vivid glare was softened by pale, cream-colored, porcelain
   spheres, shedding over the place a serene, silver flood; as if every
   porcelain sphere were a moon; and this superb apartment was the moon-lit
   garden of Portia at Belmont; and the gentle lovers, Lorenzo and Jessica,
   lurked somewhere among the vines.
   At numerous Moorish looking tables, supported by Caryatides of turbaned
   slaves, sat knots of gentlemanly men, with cut decanters and
   taper-waisted glasses, journals and cigars, before them.
   To and fro ran obsequious waiters, with spotless napkins thrown over
   their arms, and making a profound salaam, and hemming deferentially,
   whenever they uttered a word.
   At the further end of this brilliant apartment, was a rich mahogany
   turret-like structure, partly built into the wall, and communicating
   with rooms in the rear. Behind, was a very handsome florid old man, with
   snow-white hair and whiskers, and in a snow-white jacket--he looked like
   an almond tree in blossom--who seemed to be standing, a polite sentry
   over the scene before him; and it was he, who mostly ordered about the
   waiters; and with a silent salute, received the silver of the guests.
   Our entrance excited little or no notice; for every body present seemed
   exceedingly animated about concerns of their own; and a large group was
   gathered around one tall, military looking gentleman, who was reading
   some India war-news from the Times, and commenting on it, in a very loud
   voice, condemning, in toto, the entire campaign.
   We seated ourselves apart from this group, and Harry, rapping on the
   table, called for wine; mentioning some curious foreign name.
   The decanter, filled with a pale yellow wine, being placed before us,
   and my comrade having drunk a few glasses; he whispered me to remain
   where I was, while he withdrew for a moment.
   I saw him advance to the turret-like place, and exchange a confidential
   word with the almond tree there, who immediately looked very much
   surprised,--I thought, a Little disconcerted,--and then disappeared with
   him.
   While my friend was gone, I occupied myself with looking around me, and
   striving to appear as indifferent as possible, and as much used to all
   this splendor as if I had been born in it. But, to tell the truth, my
   head was almost dizzy with the strangeness of the sight, and the thought
   that I was really in London. What would my brother have said? What would
   Tom Legare, the treasurer of the Juvenile Temperance Society, have
   thought?
