   
   But I almost began to fancy I had no friends and relatives living in a
   little village three thousand five hundred miles off, in America; for it
   was hard to unite such a humble reminiscence with the splendid animation
   of the London-like scene around me.
   And in the delirium of the moment, I began to indulge in foolish golden
   visions of the counts and countesses to whom Harry might introduce me;
   and every instant I expected to hear the waiters addressing some
   gentleman as "My Lord," or "four Grace." But if there were really any
   lords present, the waiters omitted their titles, at least in my hearing.
   Mixed with these thoughts were confused visions of St. Paul's and the
   Strand, which I determined to visit the very next morning, before
   breakfast, or perish in the attempt. And I even longed for Harry's
   return, that we might immediately sally out into the street, and see
   some of the sights, before the shops were all closed for the night.
   While I thus sat alone, I observed one of the waiters eying me a little
   impertinently, as I thought, and as if he saw something queer about me.
   So I tried to assume a careless and lordly air, and by way of helping
   the thing, threw one leg over the other, like a young Prince Esterhazy;
   but all the time I felt my face burning with embarrassment, and for the
   time, I must have looked very guilty of something. But spite of this, I
   kept looking boldly out of my eyes, and straight through my blushes, and
   observed that every now and then little parties were made up among the
   gentlemen, and they retired into the rear of the house, as if going to a
   private apartment. And I overheard one of them drop the word Rouge; but
   he could not have used rouge, for his face was exceedingly pale. Another
   said something about Loo.
   At last Harry came back, his face rather flushed.
   "Come along, Redburn," said he.
   So making no doubt we were off for a ramble, perhaps to Apsley House, in
   the Park, to get a sly peep at the old Duke before he retired for the
   night, for Harry had told me the Duke always went to bed early, I sprang
   up to follow him; but what was my disappointment and surprise, when he
   only led me into the passage, toward a staircase lighted by three marble
   Graces, unitedly holding a broad candelabra, like an elk's antlers, over
   the landing.
   We rambled up the long, winding slope of those aristocratic stairs,
   every step of which, covered with Turkey rugs, looked gorgeous as the
   hammer-cloth of the Lord Mayor's coach; and Harry hied straight to a
   rosewood door, which, on magical hinges, sprang softly open to his
   touch.
   As we entered the room, methought I was slowly sinking in some
   reluctant, sedgy sea; so thick and elastic the Persian carpeting,
   mimicking parterres of tulips, and roses, and jonquils, like a bower in
   Babylon.
   Long lounges lay carelessly disposed, whose fine damask was interwoven,
   like the Gobelin tapestry, with pictorial tales of tilt and tourney. And
   oriental ottomans, whose cunning warp and woof were wrought into plaited
   serpents, undulating beneath beds of leaves, from which, here and there,
   they flashed out sudden splendors of green scales and gold.
   In the broad bay windows, as the hollows of King Charles' oaks, were
   Laocoon-like chairs, in the antique taste, draped with heavy fringers of
   bullion and silk.
   The walls, covered with a sort of tartan-French paper, variegated with
   bars of velvet, were hung round with mythological oil-paintings,
   suspended by tasseled cords of twisted silver and blue.
   They were such pictures as the high-priests, for a bribe, showed to
   Alexander in the innermost shrine of the white temple in the Libyan
   oasis: such pictures as the pontiff of the sun strove to hide from
   Cortez, when, sword in hand, he burst open the sanctorum of the
   pyramid-fane at Cholula: such pictures as you may still see, perhaps, in
   the central alcove of the excavated mansion of Pansa, in Pompeii--in that
   part of it called by Varro the hollow of the house: such pictures as
   Martial and Seutonius mention as being found in the private cabinet of
   the Emperor Tiberius: such pictures as are delineated on the bronze
   medals, to this day dug up on the ancient island of Capreas: such
   pictures as you might have beheld in an arched recess, leading from the
   left hand of the secret side-gallery of the temple of Aphrodite in
   Corinth.
   In the principal pier was a marble bracket, sculptured in the semblance
   of a dragon's crest, and supporting a bust, most wonderful to behold. It
   was that of a bald-headed old man, with a mysteriously-wicked
   expression, and imposing silence by one thin finger over his lips. His
   'marble mouth seemed tremulous with secrets.
   "Sit down, Wellingborough," said Harry; "don't be frightened, we are at
   home.--Ring the bell, will you? But stop;"--and advancing to the
   mysterious bust, he whispered something in its ear.
   "He's a knowing mute, Wellingborough," said he; "who stays in this one
   place all the time, while he is yet running of errands. But mind you
   don't breathe any secrets in his ear."
   In obedience to a summons so singularly conveyed, to my amazement a
   servant almost instantly appeared, standing transfixed in the attitude
   of a bow.
   "Cigars," said Harry. When they came, he drew up a small table into the
   middle of the room, and lighting his cigar, bade me follow his example,
   and make myself happy.
   Almost transported with such princely quarters, so undreamed of before,
   while leading my dog's life in the filthy forecastle of the Highlander,
   I twirled round a chair, and seated myself opposite my friend.
   But all the time, I felt ill at heart; and was filled with an
   undercurrent of dismal forebodings. But I strove to dispel them; and
   turning to my companion, exclaimed, "And pray, do you live here, Harry,
   in this Palace of Aladdin?"
