   
   "Upon my soul," he cried, "you have hit it:--you must have been here
   before! Aladdin's Palace! Why, Wellingborough, it goes by that very
   name."
   Then he laughed strangely: and for the first time, I thought he had been
   quaffing too freely: yet, though he looked wildly from his eyes, his
   general carriage was firm.
   "Who are you looking at so hard, Wellingborough?" said he.
   "I am afraid, Harry," said I, "that when you left me just now, you must
   have been drinking something stronger than wine."
   "Hear him now," said Harry, turning round, as if addressing the
   bald-headed bust on the bracket,--"a parson 'pon honor!--But remark you,
   Wellingborough, my boy, I must leave you again, and for a considerably
   longer time than before:--I may not be back again to-night."
   "What?" said I.
   "Be still," he cried, "hear me, I know the old duke here, and-"
   "Who? not the Duke of Wellington," said I, wondering whether Harry was
   really going to include him too, in his long list of confidential
   friends and acquaintances.
   "Pooh!" cried Harry, "I mean the white-whiskered old man you saw below;
   they call him the Duke:--he keeps the house. I say, I know him well, and
   he knows me; and he knows what brings me here, also. Well; we have
   arranged every thing about you; you are to stay in this room, and sleep
   here tonight, and--and--" continued he, speaking low--"you must guard this
   letter--" slipping a sealed one into my hand-"and, if I am not back by
   morning, you must post right on to Bury, and leave the letter
   there;--here, take this paper--it's all set down here in black and
   white--where you are to go, and what you are to do. And after that's
   done--mind, this is all in case I don't return--then you may do what you
   please: stay here in London awhile, or go back to Liverpool. And here's
   enough to pay all your expenses."
   All this was a thunder stroke. I thought Harry was crazy. I held the
   purse in my motionless hand, and stared at him, till the tears almost
   started from my eyes.
   "What's the matter, Redburn?" he cried, with a wild sort of laugh--"you
   are not afraid of me, are you?--No, no! I believe in you, my boy, or you
   would not hold that purse in your hand; no, nor that letter."
   "What in heaven's name do you mean?" at last I exclaimed, "you don't
   really intend to desert me in this strange place, do you, Harry?" and I
   snatched him by the hand.
   "Pooh, pooh," he cried, "let me go. I tell you, it's all right: do as I
   say: that's all. Promise me now, will you? Swear it!-no, no," he added,
   vehemently, as I conjured him to tell me more--"no, I won't: I have
   nothing more to tell you--not a word. Will you swear?"
   "But one sentence more for your own sake, Harry: hear me!"
   "Not a syllable! Will you swear?--you will not? then here, give me that
   purse:--there--there--take that--and that--and that;--that will pay your
   fare back to Liverpool; good-by to you: you are not my friend," and he
   wheeled round his back.
   I know not what flashed through my mind, but something suddenly impelled
   me; and grasping his hand, I swore to him what he demanded.
   Immediately he ran to the bust, whispered a word, and the white-whiskered
   old man appeared: whom he clapped on the shoulder, and then introduced me
   as his friend--young Lord Stormont; and bade the almond tree look well to
   the comforts of his lordship, while he--Harry--was gone.
   The almond tree blandly bowed, and grimaced, with a peculiar expression,
   that I hated on the spot. After a few words more, he withdrew. Harry
   then shook my hand heartily, and without giving me a chance to say one
   word, seized his cap, and darted out of the room, saying, "Leave not
   this room tonight; and remember the letter, and Bury!"
   I fell into a chair, and gazed round at the strange-looking walls and
   mysterious pictures, and up to the chandelier at the ceiling; then rose,
   and opened the door, and looked down the lighted passage; but only heard
   the hum from the roomful below, scattered voices, and a hushed ivory
   rattling from the closed apartments adjoining. I stepped back into the
   room, and a terrible revulsion came over me: I would have given the
   world had I been safe back in Liverpool, fast asleep in my old bunk in
   Prince's Dock.
   I shuddered at every footfall, and almost thought it must be some
   assassin pursuing me. The whole place seemed infected; and a strange
   thought came over me, that in the very damasks around, some eastern
   plague had been imported. And was that pale yellow wine, that I drank
   below, drugged? thought I. This must be some house whose foundations
   take hold on the pit. But these fearful reveries only enchanted me fast
   to my chair; so that, though I then wished to rush forth from the house,
   my limbs seemed manacled.
