   
   V. HE PURCHASES HIS SEA-WARDROBE, AND ON A DISMAL RAINY DAY PICKS UP HIS
   BOARD AND LODGING ALONG THE WHARVES
   The first thing I now did was to buy a little stationery, and keep my
   promise to my mother, by writing her; and I also wrote to my brother
   informing him of the voyage I purposed making, and indulging in some
   romantic and misanthropic views of life, such as many boys in my
   circumstances, are accustomed to do.
   The rest of the two dollars and a half I laid out that very morning in
   buying a red woolen shirt near Catharine Market, a tarpaulin hat, which
   I got at an out-door stand near Peck Slip, a belt and jackknife, and two
   or three trifles. After these purchases, I had only one penny left, so I
   walked out to the end of the pier, and threw the penny into the water.
   The reason why I did this, was because I somehow felt almost desperate
   again, and didn't care what became of me. But if the penny had been a
   dollar, I would have kept it.
   I went home to dinner at Mr. Jones', and they welcomed me very kindly,
   and Mrs. Jones kept my plate full all the time during dinner, so that I
   had no chance to empty it. She seemed to see that I felt bad, and
   thought plenty of pudding might help me. At any rate, I never felt so
   bad yet but I could eat a good dinner. And once, years afterward, when I
   expected to be killed every day, I remember my appetite was very keen,
   and I said to myself, "Eat away, Wellingborough, while you can, for this
   may be the last supper you will have."
   After dinner I went into my room, locked the door carefully, and hung a
   towel over the knob, so that no one could peep through the keyhole, and
   then went to trying on my red woolen shirt before the glass, to see what
   sort of a looking sailor I was going to make. As soon as I got into the
   shirt I began to feel sort of warm and red about the face, which I found
   was owing to the reflection of the dyed wool upon my skin. After that, I
   took a pair of scissors and went to cutting my hair, which was very
   long. I thought every little would help, in making me a light hand to
   run aloft.
   Next morning I bade my kind host and hostess good-by, and left the house
   with my bundle, feeling somewhat misanthropical and desperate again.
   Before I reached the ship, it began to rain hard; and as soon as I
   arrived at the wharf, it was plain that there would be no getting to sea
   that day.
   This was a great disappointment to me, for I did not want to return to
   Mr. Jones' again after bidding them good-by; it would be so awkward. So
   I concluded to go on board ship for the present.
   When I reached the deck, I saw no one but a large man in a large
   dripping pea-jacket, who was calking down the main-hatches.
   "What do you want, Pillgarlic?" said he.
   "I've shipped to sail in this ship," I replied, assuming a little
   dignity, to chastise his familiarity.
   "What for? a tailor?" said he, looking at my shooting jacket.
   I answered that I was going as a "boy;" for so I was technically put
   down on the articles.
   "Well," said he, "have you got your traps aboard?"
   I told him I didn't know there were any rats in the ship, and hadn't
   brought any "trap."
   At this he laughed out with a great guffaw, and said there must be
   hay-seed in my hair.
