   
   While thus chained to my seat, something seemed suddenly flung open; a
   confused sound of imprecations, mixed with the ivory rattling, louder
   than before, burst upon my ear, and through the partly open door of the
   room where I was, I caught sight of a tall, frantic man, with clenched
   hands, wildly darting through the passage, toward the stairs.
   And all the while, Harry ran through my soul--in and out, at every door,
   that burst open to his vehement rush.
   At that moment my whole acquaintance with him passed like lightning
   through my mind, till I asked myself why he had come here, to London, to
   do this thing?--why would not Liverpool have answered? and what did he
   want of me? But, every way, his conduct was unaccountable. From the hour
   he had accosted me on board the ship, his manner seemed gradually
   changed; and from the moment we had sprung into the cab, he had seemed
   almost another person from what he had seemed before.
   But what could I do? He was gone, that was certain;-would he ever come
   back? But he might still be somewhere in the house; and with a shudder,
   I thought of that ivory rattling, and was almost ready to dart forth,
   search every room, and save him. But that would be madness, and I had
   sworn not to do so. There seemed nothing left, but to await his return.
   Yet, if he did not return, what then? I took out the purse, and counted
   over the money, and looked at the letter and paper of memoranda.
   Though I vividly remember it all, I will not give the superscription of
   the letter, nor the contents of the paper. But after I had looked at
   them attentively, and considered that Harry could have no conceivable
   object in deceiving me, I thought to myself, Yes, he's in earnest; and
   here I am--yes, even in London! And here in this room will I stay, come
   what will. I will implicitly follow his directions, and so see out the
   last of this thing.
   But spite of these thoughts, and spite of the metropolitan magnificence
   around me, I was mysteriously alive to a dreadful feeling, which I had
   never before felt, except when penetrating into the lowest and most
   squalid haunts of sailor iniquity in Liverpool. All the mirrors and
   marbles around me seemed crawling over with lizards; and I thought to
   myself, that though gilded and golden, the serpent of vice is a serpent
   still.
   It was now grown very late; and faint with excitement, I threw myself
   upon a lounge; but for some time tossed about restless, in a sort of
   night-mare. Every few moments, spite of my oath, I was upon the point of
   starting up, and rushing into the street, to inquire where I was; but
   remembering Harry's injunctions, and my own ignorance of the town, and
   that it was now so late, I again tried to be composed.
   At last, I fell asleep, dreaming about Harry fighting a duel of
   dice-boxes with the military-looking man below; and the next thing I
   knew, was the glare of a light before my eyes, and Harry himself, very
   pale, stood before me.
   "The letter and paper," he cried.
   I fumbled in my pockets, and handed them to him.
   "There! there! there! thus I tear you," he cried, wrenching the letter
   to pieces with both hands like a madman, and stamping upon the
   fragments. "I am off for America; the game is up."
   "For God's sake explain," said I, now utterly bewildered, and
   frightened. "Tell me, Harry, what is it? You have not been gambling?"
   "Ha, ha," he deliriously laughed. "Gambling? red and white, you mean?--
   cards?--dice?--the bones?--Ha, ha!--Gambling? gambling?" he ground out
   between his teeth--"what two devilish, stiletto-sounding syllables they
   are!"
   "Wellingborough," he added, marching up to me slowly, but with his eyes
   blazing into mine--"Wellingborough"--and fumbling in his breast-pocket, he
   drew forth a dirk--"Here, Wellingborough, take it--take it, I say--are you
   stupid?-there, there"--and he pushed it into my hands. "Keep it away from
   me--keep it out of my sight--I don't want it near me, while I feel as I
   do. They serve suicides scurvily here, Wellingborough; they don't bury
   them decently. See that bell-rope! By Heaven, it's an invitation to hang
   myself'--and seizing it by the gilded handle at the end, he twitched it
   down from the wall.
   "In God's name, what ails you?" I cried.
   "Nothing, oh nothing," said Harry, now assuming a treacherous, tropical
   calmness--"nothing, Redburn; nothing in the world. I'm the serenest of
   men."
   "But give me that dirk," he suddenly cried--"let me have it, I say. Oh! I
   don't mean to murder myself--I'm past that now--give it me"--and snatching
   it from my hand, he flung down an empty purse, and with a terrific stab,
   nailed it fast with the dirk to the table.
   "There now," he cried, "there's something for the old duke to see
   to-morrow morning; that's about all that's left of me--that's my
   skeleton, Wellingborough. But come, don't be downhearted; there's a
   little more gold yet in Golconda; I have a guinea or two left. Don't
   stare so, my boy; we shall be in Liverpool to-morrow night; we start in
   the morning"--and turning his back, he began to whistle very fiercely.
   "And this, then," said I, "is your showing me London, is it, Harry? I
   did not think this; but tell me your secret, whatever it is, and I will
   not regret not seeing the town."
   He turned round upon me like lightning, and cried, "Red-burn! you must
   swear another oath, and instantly."
