   
   "And why?" said I, in alarm, "what more would you have me swear?"
   "Never to question me again about this infernal trip to London!" he
   shouted, with the foam at his lips--"never to breathe it! swear!"
   "I certainly shall not trouble you, Harry, with questions, if you do not
   desire it," said I, "but there's no need of swearing."
   "Swear it, I say, as you love me, Redburn," he added, imploringly.
   "Well, then, I solemnly do. Now lie down, and let us forget ourselves as
   soon as we can; for me, you have made me the most miserable dog alive."
   "And what am I?" cried Harry; "but pardon me, Redburn, I did not mean to
   offend; if you knew all--but no, no!--never mind, never mind!" And he ran
   to the bust, and whispered in its ear. A waiter came.
   "Brandy," whispered Harry, with clenched teeth.
   "Are you not going to sleep, then?" said I, more and more alarmed at his
   wildness, and fearful of the effects of his drinking still more, in such
   a mood.
   "No sleep for me! sleep if you can--I mean to sit up with a decanter!--let
   me see"--looking at the ormolu clock on the mantel--"it's only two hours
   to morning."
   The waiter, looking very sleepy, and with a green shade on his brow,
   appeared with the decanter and glasses on a salver, and was told to
   leave it and depart.
   Seeing that Harry was not to be moved, I once more threw myself on the
   lounge. I did not sleep; but, like a somnambulist, only dozed now and
   then; starting from my dreams; while Harry sat, with his hat on, at the
   table; the brandy before him; from which he occasionally poured into his
   glass. Instead of exciting him, however, to my amazement, the spirits
   seemed to soothe him down; and, ere long, he was comparatively calm.
   At last, just as I had fallen into a deep sleep, I was wakened by his
   shaking me, and saying our cab was at the door.
   "Look! it is broad day," said he, brushing aside the heavy hangings of
   the window.
   We left the room; and passing through the now silent and deserted hall
   of pillars, which, at this hour, reeked as with blended roses and
   cigar-stumps decayed; a dumb waiter; rubbing his eyes, flung open the
   street door; we sprang into the cab; and soon found ourselves whirled
   along northward by railroad, toward Prince's Dock and the Highlander.
   XLVII. HOMEWARD BOUND
   Once more in Liverpool; and wending my way through the same old streets
   to the sign of the Golden Anchor; I could scarcely credit the events of
   the last thirty-six hours.
