   
   So unforeseen had been our departure in the first place; so rapid our
   journey; so unaccountable the conduct of Harry; and so sudden our
   return; that all united to overwhelm me. That I had been at all in
   London seemed impossible; and that I had been there, and come away
   little the wiser, was almost distracting to one who, like me, had so
   longed to behold that metropolis of marvels.
   I looked hard at Harry as he walked in silence at my side; I stared at
   the houses we passed; I thought of the cab, the gas lighted hall in the
   Palace of Aladdin, the pictures, the letter, the oath, the dirk; the
   mysterious place where all these mysteries had occurred; and then, was
   almost ready to conclude, that the pale yellow wine had been drugged.
   As for Harry, stuffing his false whiskers and mustache into his pocket,
   he now led the way to the boarding-house; and saluting the landlady, was
   shown to his room; where we immediately shifted our clothes, appearing
   once more in our sailor habiliments.
   "Well, what do you propose to do now, Harry?" said I, with a heavy
   heart.
   "Why, visit your Yankee land in the Highlander, of course--what else?'
   he replied.
   "And is it to be a visit, or a long stay?" asked I.
   "That's as it may turn out," said Harry; "but I have now more than ever
   resolved upon the sea. There is nothing like the sea for a fellow like
   me, Redburn; a desperate man can not get any further than the wharf, you
   know; and the next step must be a long jump. But come, let's see what
   they have to eat here, and then for a cigar and a stroll. I feel better
   already. Never say die, is my motto."
   We went to supper; after that, sallied out; and walking along the quay
   of Prince's Dock, heard that the ship Highlander had that morning been
   advertised to sail in two days' time.
   "Good!" exclaimed Harry; and I was glad enough myself.
   Although I had now been absent from the ship a full forty-eight hours,
   and intended to return to her, yet I did not anticipate being called to
   any severe account for it from the officers; for several of our men had
   absented themselves longer than I had, and upon their return, little or
   nothing was said to them. Indeed, in some cases, the mate seemed to know
   nothing about it. During the whole time we lay in Liverpool, the
   discipline of the ship was altogether relaxed; and I could hardly
   believe they were the same officers who were so dictatorial at sea. The
   reason of this was, that we had nothing important to do; and although
   the captain might now legally refuse to receive me on board, yet I was
   not afraid of that, as I was as stout a lad for my years, and worked as
   cheap, as any one he could engage to take my place on the homeward
   passage.
   Next morning we made our appearance on board before the rest of the
   crew; and the mate perceiving me, said with an oath, "Well, sir, you
   have thought best to return then, have you? Captain Riga and I were
   flattering ourselves that you had made a run of it for good."
   Then, thought I, the captain, who seems to affect to know nothing of the
   proceedings of the sailors, has been aware of my absence.
   "But turn to, sir, turn to," added the mate; "here! aloft there, and
   free that pennant; it's foul of the backstay--jump!"
   The captain coming on board soon after, looked very benevolently at
   Harry; but, as usual, pretended not to take the slightest notice of
   myself.
   We were all now very busy in getting things ready for sea. The cargo had
   been already stowed in the hold by the stevedores and lumpers from
   shore; but it became the crew's business to clear away the
   between-decks, extending from the cabin bulkhead to the forecastle, for
   the reception of about five hundred emigrants, some of whose boxes were
   already littering the decks.
   To provide for their wants, a far larger supply of water was needed than
   upon the outward-bound passage. Accordingly, besides the usual number of
   casks on deck, rows of immense tierces were lashed amid-ships, all along
   the between-decks, forming a sort of aisle on each side, furnishing
   access to four rows of bunks,--three tiers, one above another,--against
   the ship's sides; two tiers being placed over the tierces of water in
   the middle. These bunks were rapidly knocked together with coarse
   planks. They looked more like dog-kennels than any thing else;
   especially as the place was so gloomy and dark; no light coming down
   except through the fore and after hatchways, both of which were covered
   with little houses called "booby-hatches." Upon the main-hatches, which
   were well calked and covered over with heavy tarpaulins, the
   "passengers-gattey" was solidly lashed down.
   This galley was a large open stove, or iron range--made expressly for
   emigrant ships, wholly unprotected from the weather, and where alone the
   emigrants are permitted to cook their food while at sea.
   After two days' work, every thing was in readiness; most of the
   emigrants on board; and in the evening we worked the ship close into the
   outlet of Prince's Dock, with the bow against the water-gate, to go out
   with the tide in the morning.
   In the morning, the bustle and confusion about us was indescribable.
   Added to the ordinary clamor of the docks, was the hurrying to and fro
   of our five hundred emigrants, the last of whom, with their baggage,
   were now coming on board; the appearance of the cabin passengers,
   following porters with their trunks; the loud orders of the
   dock-masters, ordering the various ships behind us to preserve their
   order of going out; the leave-takings, and good-by's, and
   God-bless-you's, between the emigrants and their friends; and the cheers
   of the surrounding ships.
   At this time we lay in such a way, that no one could board us except by
   the bowsprit, which overhung the quay. Staggering along that bowsprit,
   now came a one-eyed crimp leading a drunken tar by the collar, who had
   been shipped to sail with us the day previous. It has been stated
   before, that two or three of our men had left us for good, while in
   port. When the crimp had got this man and another safely lodged in a
   bunk below, he returned on shore; and going to a miserable cab, pulled
   out still another apparently drunken fellow, who proved completely
   helpless. However, the ship now swinging her broadside more toward the
   quay, this stupefied sailor, with a Scotch cap pulled down over his
   closed eyes, only revealing a sallow Portuguese complexion, was lowered
   on board by a rope under his arms, and passed forward by the crew, who
   put him likewise into a bunk in the forecastle, the crimp himself
   carefully tucking him in, and bidding the bystanders not to disturb him
   till the ship was away from the land.
