   
   This done, the confusion increased, as we now glided out of the dock.
   Hats and handkerchiefs were waved; hurrahs were exchanged; and tears
   were shed; and the last thing I saw, as we shot into the stream, was a
   policeman collaring a boy, and walking him off to the guard-house.
   A steam-tug, the Goliath, now took us by the arm, and gallanted us down
   the river past the fort.
   The scene was most striking.
   Owing to a strong breeze, which had been blowing up the river for four
   days past, holding wind-bound in the various docks a multitude of ships
   for all parts of the world; there was now under weigh, a vast fleet of
   merchantmen, all steering broad out to sea. The white sails glistened in
   the clear morning air like a great Eastern encampment of sultans; and
   from many a forecastle, came the deep mellow old song Ho-o-he-yo,
   cheerily men! as the crews called their anchors.
   The wind was fair; the weather mild; the sea most smooth; and the poor
   emigrants were in high spirits at so auspicious a beginning of their
   voyage. They were reclining all over the decks, talking of soon seeing
   America, and relating how the agent had told them, that twenty days
   would be an uncommonly long voyage.
   Here it must be mentioned, that owing to the great number of ships
   sailing to the Yankee ports from Liverpool, the competition among them
   in obtaining emigrant passengers, who as a cargo are much more
   remunerative than crates and bales, is exceedingly great; so much so,
   that some of the agents they employ, do not scruple to deceive the poor
   applicants for passage, with all manner of fables concerning the short
   space of time, in which their ships make the run across the ocean.
   This often induces the emigrants to provide a much smaller stock of
   provisions than they otherwise would; the effect of which sometimes
   proves to be in the last degree lamentable; as will be seen further on.
   And though benevolent societies have been long organized in Liverpool,
   for the purpose of keeping offices, where the emigrants can obtain
   reliable information and advice, concerning their best mode of
   embarkation, and other matters interesting to them; and though the
   English authorities have imposed a law, providing that every captain of
   an emigrant ship bound for any port of America shall see to it, that
   each passenger is provided with rations of food for sixty days; yet, all
   this has not deterred mercenary ship-masters and unprincipled agents
   from practicing the grossest deception; nor exempted the emigrants
   themselves, from the very sufferings intended to be averted.
   No sooner had we fairly gained the expanse of the Irish Sea, and, one by
   one, lost sight of our thousand consorts, than the weather changed into
   the most miserable cold, wet, and cheerless days and nights imaginable.
   The wind was tempestuous, and dead in our teeth; and the hearts of the
   emigrants fell. Nearly all of them had now hied below, to escape the
   uncomfortable and perilous decks: and from the two "booby-hatches" came
   the steady hum of a subterranean wailing and weeping. That irresistible
   wrestler, sea-sickness, had overthrown the stoutest of their number, and
   the women and children were embracing and sobbing in all the agonies of
   the poor emigrant's first storm at sea.
   Bad enough is it at such times with ladies and gentlemen in the cabin,
   who have nice little state-rooms; and plenty of privacy; and stewards to
   run for them at a word, and put pillows under their heads, and tenderly
   inquire how they are getting along, and mix them a posset: and even
   then, in the abandonment of this soul and body subduing malady, such
   ladies and gentlemen will often give up life itself as unendurable, and
   put up the most pressing petitions for a speedy annihilation; all of
   which, however, only arises from their intense anxiety to preserve their
   valuable lives.
   How, then, with the friendless emigrants, stowed away like bales of
   cotton, and packed like slaves in a slave-ship; confined in a place
   that, during storm time, must be closed against both light and air; who
   can do no cooking, nor warm so much as a cup of water; for the drenching
   seas would instantly flood their fire in their exposed galley on deck?
   How, then, with these men, and women, and children, to whom a first
   voyage, under the most advantageous circumstances, must come just as
   hard as to the Honorable De Lancey Fitz Clarence, lady, daughter, and
   seventeen servants.
   Nor is this all: for in some of these ships, as in the case of the
   Highlander, the emigrant passengers are cut off from the most
   indispensable conveniences of a civilized dwelling. This forces them in
   storm time to such extremities, that no wonder fevers and plagues are
   the result. We had not been at sea one week, when to hold your head down
   the fore hatchway was like holding it down a suddenly opened cesspool.
   But still more than this. Such is the aristocracy maintained on board
   some of these ships, that the most arbitrary measures are enforced, to
   prevent the emigrants from intruding upon the most holy precincts of the
   quarter-deck, the only completely open space on ship-board.
   Consequently--even in fine weather--when they come up from below, they are
   crowded in the waist of the ship, and jammed among the boats, casks, and
   spars; abused by the seamen, and sometimes cuffed by the officers, for
   unavoidably standing in the way of working the vessel.
   The cabin-passengers of the Highlander numbered some fifteen in all; and
   to protect this detachment of gentility from the barbarian incursions of
   the "wild Irish" emigrants, ropes were passed athwart-ships, by the
   main-mast, from side to side: which defined the boundary line between
   those who had paid three pounds passage-money, from those who had paid
   twenty guineas. And the cabin-passengers themselves were the most urgent
   in having this regulation maintained.
   Lucky would it be for the pretensions of some parvenus, whose souls are
   deposited at their banker's, and whose bodies but serve to carry about
   purses, knit of poor men's heartstrings, if thus easily they could
   precisely define, ashore, the difference between them and the rest of
   humanity.
   But, I, Redburn, am a poor fellow, who have hardly ever known what it is
   to have five silver dollars in my pocket at one time; so, no doubt, this
   circumstance has something to do with my slight and harmless indignation
   at these things.
   XLVIII. A LIVING CORPSE
