   
   It was destined that our departure from the English strand, should be
   marked by a tragical event, akin to the sudden end of the suicide, which
   had so strongly impressed me on quitting the American shore.
   Of the three newly shipped men, who in a state of intoxication had been
   brought on board at the dock gates, two were able to be engaged at their
   duties, in four or five hours after quitting the pier. But the third man
   yet lay in his bunk, in the self-same posture in which his limbs had
   been adjusted by the crimp, who had deposited him there.
   His name was down on the ship's papers as Miguel Saveda, and for Miguel
   Saveda the chief mate at last came forward, shouting down the
   forecastle-scuttle, and commanding his instant presence on deck. But the
   sailors answered for their new comrade; giving the mate to understand
   that Miguel was still fast locked in his trance, and could not obey him;
   when, muttering his usual imprecation, the mate retired to the
   quarterdeck.
   This was in the first dog-watch, from four to six in the evening. At
   about three bells, in the next watch, Max the Dutchman, who, like most
   old seamen, was something of a physician in cases of drunkenness,
   recommended that Miguel's clothing should be removed, in order that he
   should lie more comfortably. But Jackson, who would seldom let any thing
   be done in the forecastle that was not proposed by himself, capriciously
   forbade this proceeding.
   So the sailor still lay out of sight in his bunk, which was in the
   extreme angle of the forecastle, behind the bowsprit-bitts--two stout
   timbers rooted in the ship's keel. An hour or two afterward, some of the
   men observed a strange odor in the forecastle, which was attributed to
   the presence of some dead rat among the hollow spaces in the side
   planks; for some days before, the forecastle had been smoked out, to
   extirpate the vermin overrunning her. At midnight, the larboard watch,
   to which I belonged, turned out; and instantly as every man waked, he
   exclaimed at the now intolerable smell, supposed to be heightened by the
   shaking up the bilge-water, from the ship's rolling.
   "Blast that rat!" cried the Greenlander.
   "He's blasted already," said Jackson, who in his drawers had crossed
   over to the bunk of Miguel. "It's a water-rat, shipmates, that's dead;
   and here he is"--and with that, he dragged forth the sailor's arm,
   exclaiming, "Dead as a timber-head!"
   Upon this the men rushed toward the bunk, Max with the light, which he
   held to the man's face.
   "No, he's not dead," he cried, as the yellow flame wavered for a moment
   at the seaman's motionless mouth. But hardly had the words escaped,
   when, to the silent horror of all, two threads of greenish fire, like a
   forked tongue, darted out between the lips; and in a moment, the
   cadaverous face was crawled over by a swarm of wormlike flames.
   The lamp dropped from the hand of Max, and went out; while covered all
   over with spires and sparkles of flame, that faintly crackled in the
   silence, the uncovered parts of the body burned before us, precisely
   like phosphorescent shark in a midnight sea.
   The eyes were open and fixed; the mouth was curled like a scroll, and
   every lean feature firm as in life; while the whole face, now wound in
   curls of soft blue flame, wore an aspect of grim defiance, and eternal
   death. Prometheus, blasted by fire on the rock.
   One arm, its red shirt-sleeve rolled up, exposed the man's name,
   tattooed in vermilion, near the hollow of the middle joint; and as if
   there was something peculiar in the painted flesh, every vibrating
   letter burned so white, that you might read the flaming name in the
   flickering ground of blue.
   "Where's that d--d Miguel?" was now shouted down among us from the
   scuttle by the mate, who had just come on deck, and was determined to
   have every man up that belonged to his watch.
   "He's gone to the harbor where they never weigh anchor," coughed
   Jackson. "Come you down, sir, and look."
   Thinking that Jackson intended to beard him, the mate sprang down in a
   rage; but recoiled at the burning body as if he had been shot by a
   bullet. "My God!" he cried, and stood holding fast to the ladder.
   "Take hold of it," said Jackson, at last, to the Greenlander; "it must
   go overboard. Don't stand shaking there, like a dog; take hold of it, I
   say! But stop"--and smothering it all in the blankets, he pulled it
   partly out of the bunk.
   A few minutes more, and it fell with a bubble among the phosphorescent
   sparkles of the damp night sea, leaving a coruscating wake as it sank.
   This event thrilled me through and through with unspeakable horror; nor
   did the conversation of the watch during the next four hours on deck at
   all serve to soothe me.
   But what most astonished me, and seemed most incredible, was the
   infernal opinion of Jackson, that the man had been actually dead when
   brought on board the ship; and that knowingly, and merely for the sake
   of the month's advance, paid into his hand upon the strength of the bill
   he presented, the body-snatching crimp had knowingly shipped a corpse on
   board of the Highlander, under the pretense of its being a live body in
   a drunken trance. And I heard Jackson say, that he had known of such
   things having been done before. But that a really dead body ever burned
   in that manner, I can not even yet believe. But the sailors seemed
   familiar with such things; or at least with the stories of such things
   having happened to others.
   For me, who at that age had never so much as happened to hear of a case
   like this, of animal combustion, in the horrid mood that came over me, I
   almost thought the burning body was a premonition of the hell of the
   Calvinists, and that Miguel's earthly end was a foretaste of his eternal
   condemnation.
