   
   Immediately after the burial, an iron pot of red coals was placed in the
   bunk, and in it two handfuls of coffee were roasted. This done, the bunk
   was nailed up, and was never opened again during the voyage; and strict
   orders were given to the crew not to divulge what had taken place to the
   emigrants; but to this, they needed no commands.
   After the event, no one sailor but Jackson would stay alone in the
   forecastle, by night or by noon; and no more would they laugh or sing,
   or in any way make merry there, but kept all their pleasantries for the
   watches on deck. All but Jackson: who, while the rest would be sitting
   silently smoking on their chests, or in their bunks, would look toward
   the fatal spot, and cough, and laugh, and invoke the dead man with
   incredible scoffs and jeers. He froze my blood, and made my soul stand
   still.
   XLIX. CARLO
   There was on board our ship, among the emigrant passengers, a rich-
   cheeked, chestnut-haired Italian boy, arrayed in a faded, olive-hued
   velvet jacket, and tattered trowsers rolled up to his knee. He was not
   above fifteen years of age; but in the twilight pensiveness of his full
   morning eyes, there seemed to sleep experiences so sad and various, that
   his days must have seemed to him years. It was not an eye like Harry's
   tho' Harry's was large and womanly. It shone with a soft and spiritual
   radiance, like a moist star in a tropic sky; and spoke of humility,
   deep-seated thoughtfulness, yet a careless endurance of all the ills of
   life.
   The head was if any thing small; and heaped with thick clusters of
   tendril curls, half overhanging the brows and delicate ears, it somehow
   reminded you of a classic vase, piled up with Falernian foliage.
   From the knee downward, the naked leg was beautiful to behold as any
   lady's arm; so soft and rounded, with infantile ease and grace. His
   whole figure was free, fine, and indolent; he was such a boy as might
   have ripened into life in a Neapolitan vineyard; such a boy as gipsies
   steal in infancy; such a boy as Murillo often painted, when he went
   among the poor and outcast, for subjects wherewith to captivate the eyes
   of rank and wealth; such a boy, as only Andalusian beggars are, full of
   poetry, gushing from every rent.
   Carlo was his name; a poor and friendless son of earth, who had no sire;
   and on life's ocean was swept along, as spoon-drift in a gale.
   Some months previous, he had landed in Prince's Dock, with his hand-
   organ, from a Messina vessel; and had walked the streets of Liverpool,
   playing the sunny airs of southern chines, among the northern fog and
   drizzle. And now, having laid by enough to pay his passage over the
   Atlantic, he had again embarked, to seek his fortunes in America.
   From the first, Harry took to the boy.
   "Carlo," said Harry, "how did you succeed in England?"
   He was reclining upon an old sail spread on the long-boat; and throwing
   back his soiled but tasseled cap, and caressing one leg like a child, he
   looked up, and said in his broken English--that seemed like mixing the
   potent wine of Oporto with some delicious syrup:--said he, "Ah! I succeed
   very well!--for I have tunes for the young and the old, the gay and the
   sad. I have marches for military young men, and love-airs for the
   ladies, and solemn sounds for the aged. I never draw a crowd, but I know
   from their faces what airs will best please them; I never stop before a
   house, but I judge from its portico for what tune they will soonest toss
   me some silver. And I ever play sad airs to the merry, and merry airs to
   the sad; and most always the rich best fancy the sad, and the poor the
   merry."
   "But do you not sometimes meet with cross and crabbed old men," said
   Harry, "who would much rather have your room than your music?"
   "Yes, sometimes," said Carlo, playing with his foot, "sometimes I do."
   "And then, knowing the value of quiet to unquiet men, I suppose you
   never leave them under a shilling?"
   "No," continued the boy, "I love my organ as I do myself, for it is my
   only friend, poor organ! it sings to me when I am sad, and cheers me;
   and I never play before a house, on purpose to be paid for leaving off,
   not I; would I, poor organ?"--looking down the hatchway where it was.
   "No, that I never have done, and never will do, though I starve; for
   when people drive me away, I do not think my organ is to blame, but they
   themselves are to blame; for such people's musical pipes are cracked,
   and grown rusted, that no more music can be breathed into their souls."
   "No, Carlo; no music like yours, perhaps," said Harry, with a laugh.
