   
   "Ah! there's the mistake. Though my organ is as full of melody, as a
   hive is of bees; yet no organ can make music in unmusical breasts; no
   more than my native winds can, when they breathe upon a harp without
   chords."
   Next day was a serene and delightful one; and in the evening when the
   vessel was just rippling along impelled by a gentle yet steady breeze,
   and the poor emigrants, relieved from their late sufferings, were
   gathered on deck; Carlo suddenly started up from his lazy reclinings;
   went below, and, assisted by the emigrants, returned with his organ.
   Now, music is a holy thing, and its instruments, however humble, are to
   be loved and revered. Whatever has made, or does make, or may make
   music, should be held sacred as the golden bridle-bit of the Shah of
   Persia's horse, and the golden hammer, with which his hoofs are shod.
   Musical instruments should be like the silver tongs, with which the
   high-priests tended the Jewish altars--never to be touched by a hand
   profane. Who would bruise the poorest reed of Pan, though plucked from a
   beggar's hedge, would insult the melodious god himself.
   And there is no humble thing with music in it, not a fife, not a
   negro-fiddle, that is not to be reverenced as much as the grandest
   architectural organ that ever rolled its flood-tide of harmony down a
   cathedral nave. For even a Jew's-harp may be so played, as to awaken all
   the fairies that are in us, and make them dance in our souls, as on a
   moon-lit sward of violets.
   But what subtle power is this, residing in but a bit of steel, which
   might have made a tenpenny nail, that so enters, without knocking, into
   our inmost beings, and shows us all hidden things?
   Not in a spirit of foolish speculation altogether, in no merely
   transcendental mood, did the glorious Greek of old fancy the human soul
   to be essentially a harmony. And if we grant that theory of Paracelsus
   and Campanella, that every man has four souls within him; then can we
   account for those banded sounds with silver links, those quartettes of
   melody, that sometimes sit and sing within us, as if our souls were
   baronial halls, and our music were made by the hoarest old harpers of
   Wales.
   But look! here is poor Carlo's organ; and while the silent crowd
   surrounds him, there he stands, looking mildly but inquiringly about
   him; his right hand pulling and twitching the ivory knobs at one end of
   his instrument.
   Behold the organ!
   Surely, if much virtue lurk in the old fiddles of Cremona, and if their
   melody be in proportion to their antiquity, what divine ravishments may
   we not anticipate from this venerable, embrowned old organ, which might
   almost have played the Dead March in Saul, when King Saul himself was
   buried.
   A fine old organ! carved into fantastic old towers, and turrets, and
   belfries; its architecture seems somewhat of the Gothic, monastic order;
   in front, it looks like the West-Front of York Minster.
   What sculptured arches, leading into mysterious intricacies!--what
   mullioned windows, that seem as if they must look into chapels flooded
   with devotional sunsets!--what flying buttresses, and gable-ends, and
   niches with saints!--But stop! 'tis a Moorish iniquity; for here, as I
   live, is a Saracenic arch; which, for aught I know, may lead into some
   interior Alhambra.
   Ay, it does; for as Carlo now turns his hand, I hear the gush of the
   Fountain of Lions, as he plays some thronged Italian air--a mixed and
   liquid sea of sound, that dashes its spray in my face.
   Play on, play on, Italian boy! what though the notes be broken, here's
   that within that mends them. Turn hither your pensive, morning eyes; and
   while I list to the organs twain--one yours, one mine--let me gaze
   fathoms down into thy fathomless eye;--'tis good as gazing down into the
   great South Sea, and seeing the dazzling rays of the dolphins there.
   Play on, play on! for to every note come trooping, now, triumphant
   standards, armies marching--all the pomp of sound. Methinks I am Xerxes,
   the nucleus of the martial neigh of all the Persian studs. Like gilded
   damask-flies, thick clustering on some lofty bough, my satraps swarm
   around me.
   But now the pageant passes, and I droop; while Carlo taps his ivory
   knobs; and plays some flute-like saraband--soft, dulcet, dropping sounds,
   like silver cans in bubbling brooks. And now a clanging, martial air, as
   if ten thousand brazen trumpets, forged from spurs and swordhilts,
   called North, and South, and East, to rush to West!
   Again-what blasted heath is this?--what goblin sounds of Macbeth's
   witches?--Beethoven's Spirit Waltz! the muster-call of sprites and
   specters. Now come, hands joined, Medusa, Hecate, she of Endor, and all
   the Blocksberg's, demons dire.
   Once more the ivory knobs are tapped; and long-drawn, golden sounds are
   heard-some ode to Cleopatra; slowly loom, and solemnly expand, vast,
   rounding orbs of beauty; and before me float innumerable queens, deep
   dipped in silver gauzes.
   All this could Carlo do--make, unmake me; build me up; to pieces take me;
   and join me limb to limb. He is the architect of domes of sound, and
   bowers of song.
   And all is done with that old organ! Reverenced, then, be all street
   organs; more melody is at the beck of my Italian boy, than lurks in
   squadrons of Parisian orchestras.
   But look! Carlo has that to feast the eye as well as ear; and the same
   wondrous magic in me, magnifies them into grandeur; though every figure
   greatly needs the artist's repairing hand, and sadly needs a dusting.
