   
   His York Minster's West-Front opens; and like the gates of Milton's
   heaven, it turns on golden binges.
   What have we here? The inner palace of the Great Mogul? Group and gilded
   columns, in confidential clusters; fixed fountains; canopies and
   lounges; and lords and dames in silk and spangles.
   The organ plays a stately march; and presto! wide open arches; and out
   come, two and two, with nodding plumes, in crimson turbans, a troop of
   martial men; with jingling scimiters, they pace the hall; salute, pass
   on, and disappear.
   Now, ground and lofty tumblers; jet black Nubian slaves. They fling
   themselves on poles; stand on their heads; and downward vanish.
   And now a dance and masquerade of figures, reeling from the side-doors,
   among the knights and dames. Some sultan leads a sultaness; some
   emperor, a queen; and jeweled sword-hilts of carpet knights fling back
   the glances tossed by coquettes of countesses.
   On this, the curtain drops; and there the poor old organ stands,
   begrimed, and black, and rickety.
   Now, tell me, Carlo, if at street corners, for a single penny, I may
   thus transport myself in dreams Elysian, who so rich as I? Not he who
   owns a million.
   And Carlo! ill betide the voice that ever greets thee, my Italian boy,
   with aught but kindness; cursed the slave who ever drives thy wondrous
   box of sights and sounds forth from a lordling's door!
   L. HARRY BOLTON AT SEA
   As yet I have said nothing about how my friend, Harry, got along as a
   sailor.
   Poor Harry! a feeling of sadness, never to be comforted, comes over me,
   even now when I think of you. For this voyage that you went, but carried
   you part of the way to that ocean grave, which has buried you up with
   your secrets, and whither no mourning pilgrimage can be made.
   But why this gloom at the thought of the dead? And why should we not be
   glad? Is it, that we ever think of them as departed from all joy? Is it,
   that we believe that indeed they are dead? They revisit us not, the
   departed; their voices no more ring in the air; summer may come, but it
   is winter with them; and even in our own limbs we feel not the sap that
   every spring renews the green life of the trees.
   But Harry! you live over again, as I recall your image before me. I see
   you, plain and palpable as in life; and can make your existence obvious
   to others. Is he, then, dead, of whom this may be said?
   But Harry! you are mixed with a thousand strange forms, the centaurs of
   fancy; half real and human, half wild and grotesque. Divine imaginings,
   like gods, come down to the groves of our Thessalies, and there, in the
   embrace of wild, dryad reminiscences, beget the beings that astonish the
   world.
   But Harry! though your image now roams in my Thessaly groves, it is the
   same as of old; and among the droves of mixed beings and centaurs, you
   show like a zebra, banding with elks.
   And indeed, in his striped Guernsey frock, dark glossy skin and hair,
   Harry Bolton, mingling with the Highlander's crew, looked not unlike the
   soft, silken quadruped-creole, that, pursued by wild Bushmen, bounds
   through Caffrarian woods.
