   
   How they hunted you, Harry, my zebra! those ocean barbarians, those
   unimpressible, uncivilized sailors of ours! How they pursued you from
   bowsprit to mainmast, and started you out of your every retreat!
   Before the day of our sailing, it was known to the seamen that the
   girlish youth, whom they daily saw near the sign of the Clipper in
   Union-street, would form one of their homeward-bound crew. Accordingly,
   they cast upon him many a critical glance; but were not long in
   concluding that Harry would prove no very great accession to their
   strength; that the hoist of so tender an arm would not tell many
   hundred-weight on the maintop-sail halyards. Therefore they disliked him
   before they became acquainted with him; and such dislikes, as every one
   knows, are the most inveterate, and liable to increase. But even sailors
   are not blind to the sacredness that hallows a stranger; and for a time,
   abstaining from rudeness, they only maintained toward my friend a cold
   and unsympathizing civility.
   As for Harry, at first the novelty of the scene filled up his mind; and
   the thought of being bound for a distant land, carried with it, as with
   every one, a buoyant feeling of undefinable expectation. And though his
   money was now gone again, all but a sovereign or two, yet that troubled
   him but little, in the first flush of being at sea.
   But I was surprised, that one who had certainly seen much of life,
   should evince such an incredible ignorance of what was wholly
   inadmissible in a person situated as he was. But perhaps his familiarity
   with lofty life, only the less qualified him for understanding the other
   extreme. Will you believe me, this Bury blade once came on deck in a
   brocaded dressing-gown, embroidered slippers, and tasseled smoking-cap,
   to stand his morning watch.
   As soon as I beheld him thus arrayed, a suspicion, which had previously
   crossed my mind, again recurred, and I almost vowed to myself that,
   spite his protestations, Harry Bolton never could have been at sea
   before, even as a Guinea-pig in an Indiaman; for the slightest
   acquaintance with the sea-life and sailors, should have prevented him,
   it would seem, from enacting this folly.
   "Who's that Chinese mandarin?" cried the mate, who had made voyages to
   Canton. "Look you, my fine fellow, douse that mainsail now, and furl it
   in a trice."
   "Sir?" said Harry, starting back. "Is not this the morning watch, and is
   not mine a morning gown?"
   But though, in my refined friend's estimation, nothing could be more
   appropriate; in the mate's, it was the most monstrous of incongruities;
   and the offensive gown and cap were removed.
   "It is too bad!" exclaimed Harry to me; "I meant to lounge away the
   watch in that gown until coffee time;--and I suppose your Hottentot of a
   mate won't permit a gentleman to smoke his Turkish pipe of a morning;
   but by gad, I'll wear straps to my pantaloons to spite him!"
   Oh! that was the rock on which you split, poor Harry! Incensed at the
   want of polite refinement in the mates and crew, Harry, in a pet and
   pique, only determined to provoke them the more; and the storm of
   indignation he raised very soon overwhelmed him.
   The sailors took a special spite to his chest, a large mahogany one,
   which he had had made to order at a furniture warehouse. It was
   ornamented with brass screw-heads, and other devices; and was well
   filled with those articles of the wardrobe in which Harry had sported
   through a London season; for the various vests and pantaloons he had
   sold in Liverpool, when in want of money, had not materially lessened
   his extensive stock.
   It was curious to listen to the various hints and opinings thrown out by
   the sailors at the occasional glimpses they had of this collection of
   silks, velvets, broadcloths, and satins. I do not know exactly what they
   thought Harry had been; but they seemed unanimous in believing that, by
   abandoning his country, Harry had left more room for the gamblers.
   Jackson even asked him to lift up the lower hem of his browsers, to test
   the color of his calves.
   It is a noteworthy circumstance, that whenever a slender made youth, of
   easy manners and polite address happens to form one of a ship's company,
   the sailors almost invariably impute his sea-going to an irresistible
   necessity of decamping from terra-firma in order to evade the
   constables.
   These white-fingered gentry must be light-fingered too, they say to
   themselves, or they would not be after putting their hands into our tar.
   What else can bring them to sea?
   Cogent and conclusive this; and thus Harry, from the very beginning, was
   put down for a very equivocal character.
   Sometimes, however, they only made sport of his appearance; especially
   one evening, when his monkey jacket being wet through, he was obliged to
   mount one of his swallow-tailed coats. They said he carried two
   mizzen-peaks at his stern; declared he was a broken-down quill-driver,
   or a footman to a Portuguese running barber, or some old maid's
   tobacco-boy. As for the captain, it had become all the same to Harry as
   if there were no gentlemanly and complaisant Captain Riga on board. For
   to his no small astonishment,--but just as I had predicted,--Captain Riga
   never noticed him now, but left the business of indoctrinating him into
   the little experiences of a greenhorn's career solely in the hands of
   his officers and crew.
   But the worst was to come. For the first few days, whenever there was
   any running aloft to be done, I noticed that Harry was indefatigable in
   coiling away the slack of the rigging about decks; ignoring the fact
   that his shipmates were springing into the shrouds. And when all hands
   of the watch would be engaged clewing up a t'-gallant-sail, that is,
   pulling the proper ropes on deck that wrapped the sail up on the yard
   aloft, Harry would always manage to get near the belaying-pin, so that
   when the time came for two of us to spring into the rigging, he would be
   inordinately fidgety in making fast the clew-lines, and would be so
   absorbed in that occupation, and would so elaborate the hitchings round
   the pin, that it was quite impossible for him, after doing so much, to
   mount over the bulwarks before his comrades had got there. However,
   after securing the clew-lines beyond a possibility of their getting
   loose, Harry would always make a feint of starting in a prodigious hurry
   for the shrouds; but suddenly looking up, and seeing others in advance,
   would retreat, apparently quite chagrined that he had been cut off from
   the opportunity of signalizing his activity.
   At this I was surprised, and spoke to my friend; when the alarming fact
   was confessed, that he had made a private trial of it, and it never
   would do: he could not go aloft; his nerves would not hear of it.
   "Then, Harry," said I, "better you had never been born. Do you know what
   it is that you are coming to? Did you not tell me that you made no doubt
   you would acquit yourself well in the rigging? Did you not say that you
   had been two voyages to Bombay? Harry, you were mad to ship. But you
   only imagine it: try again; and my word for it, you will very soon find
   yourself as much at home among the spars as a bird in a tree."
   But he could not be induced to try it over again; the fact was, his
   nerves could not stand it; in the course of his courtly career, he had
   drunk too much strong Mocha coffee and gunpowder tea, and had smoked
   altogether too many Havannas.
