   
   At last, as I had repeatedly warned him, the mate singled him out one
   morning, and commanded him to mount to the main-truck, and unreeve the
   short signal halyards.
   "Sir?" said Harry, aghast.
   "Away you go!" said the mate, snatching a whip's end.
   "Don't strike me!" screamed Harry, drawing himself up.
   "Take that, and along with you," cried the mate, laying the rope once
   across his back, but lightly.
   "By heaven!" cried Harry, wincing--not with the blow, but the insult: and
   then making a dash at the mate, who, holding out his long arm, kept him
   lazily at bay, and laughed at him, till, had I not feared a broken head,
   I should infallibly have pitched my boy's bulk into the officer.
   "Captain Riga!" cried Harry.
   "Don't call upon him" said the mate; "he's asleep, and won't wake up
   till we strike Yankee soundings again. Up you go!" he added, flourishing
   the rope's end.
   Harry looked round among the grinning tars with a glance of terrible
   indignation and agony; and then settling his eye on me, and seeing there
   no hope, but even an admonition of obedience, as his only resource, he
   made one bound into the rigging, and was up at the main-top in a trice.
   I thought a few more springs would take him to the truck, and was a
   little fearful that in his desperation he might then jump overboard; for
   I had heard of delirious greenhorns doing such things at sea, and being
   lost forever. But no; he stopped short, and looked down from the top.
   Fatal glance! it unstrung his every fiber; and I saw him reel, and
   clutch the shrouds, till the mate shouted out for him not to squeeze the
   tar out of the ropes. "Up you go, sir." But Harry said nothing.
   "You Max," cried the mate to the Dutch sailor, "spring after him, and
   help him; you understand?"
   Max went up the rigging hand over hand, and brought his red head with a
   bump against the base of Harry's back. Needs must when the devil drives;
   and higher and higher, with Max bumping him at every step, went my
   unfortunate friend. At last he gained the royal yard, and the thin
   signal halyards--, hardly bigger than common twine--were flying in the
   wind. "Unreeve!" cried the mate.
   I saw Harry's arm stretched out--his legs seemed shaking in the rigging,
   even to us, down on deck; and at last, thank heaven! the deed was done.
   He came down pale as death, with bloodshot eyes, and every limb
   quivering. From that moment he never put foot in rattlin; never mounted
   above the bulwarks; and for the residue of the voyage, at least, became
   an altered person.
   At the time, he went to the mate--since he could not get speech of the
   captain--and conjured him to intercede with Riga, that his name might be
   stricken off from the list of the ship's company, so that he might make
   the voyage as a steerage passenger; for which privilege, he bound
   himself to pay, as soon as he could dispose of some things of his in New
   York, over and above the ordinary passage-money. But the mate gave him a
   blunt denial; and a look of wonder at his effrontery. Once a sailor on
   board a ship, and always a sailor for that voyage, at least; for within
   so brief a period, no officer can bear to associate on terms of any
   thing like equality with a person whom he has ordered about at his
   pleasure.
   Harry then told the mate solemnly, that he might do what he pleased, but
   go aloft again he could not, and would not. He would do any thing else
   but that.
   This affair sealed Harry's fate on board of the Highlander; the crew now
   reckoned him fair play for their worst jibes and jeers, and he led a
   miserable life indeed.
   Few landsmen can imagine the depressing and self-humiliating effects of
   finding one's self, for the first time, at the beck of illiterate
   sea-tyrants, with no opportunity of exhibiting any trait about you, but
   your ignorance of every thing connected with the sea-life that you lead,
   and the duties you are constantly called upon to perform. In such a
   sphere, and under such circumstances, Isaac Newton and Lord Bacon would
   be sea-clowns and bumpkins; and Napoleon Bonaparte be cuffed and kicked
   without remorse. In more than one instance I have seen the truth of
   this; and Harry, poor Harry, proved no exception. And from the
   circumstances which exempted me from experiencing the bitterest of these
   evils, I only the more felt for one who, from a strange constitutional
   nervousness, before unknown even to himself, was become as a hunted hare
   to the merciless crew.
   But how was it that Harry Bolton, who spite of his effeminacy of
   appearance, had evinced, in our London trip, such unmistakable flashes
   of a spirit not easily tamed--how was it, that he could now yield himself
   up to the almost passive reception of contumely and contempt? Perhaps
   his spirit, for the time, had been broken. But I will not undertake to
   explain; we are curious creatures, as every one knows; and there are
   passages in the lives of all men, so out of keeping with the common
   tenor of their ways, and so seemingly contradictory of themselves, that
   only He who made us can expound them.
