   
   This made me mad; but thinking he must be one of the sailors who was
   going in the ship, I thought it wouldn't be wise to make an enemy of
   him, so only asked him where the men slept in the vessel, for I wanted
   to put my clothes away.
   "Where's your clothes?" said he.
   "Here in my bundle," said I, holding it up.
   "Well if that's all you've got," he cried, "you'd better chuck it
   overboard. But go forward, go forward to the forecastle; that's the
   place you'll live in aboard here."
   And with that he directed me to a sort of hole in the deck in the bow of
   the ship; but looking down, and seeing how dark it was, I asked him for
   a light.
   "Strike your eyes together and make one," said he, "we don't have any
   lights here." So I groped my way down into the forecastle, which smelt
   so bad of old ropes and tar, that it almost made me sick. After waiting
   patiently, I began to see a little; and looking round, at last perceived
   I was in a smoky looking place, with twelve wooden boxes stuck round the
   sides. In some of these boxes were large chests, which I at once
   supposed to belong to the sailors, who must have taken that method of
   appropriating their "Trunks," as I afterward found these boxes were
   called. And so it turned out.
   After examining them for a while, I selected an empty one, and put my
   bundle right in the middle of it, so that there might be no mistake
   about my claim to the place, particularly as the bundle was so small.
   This done, I was glad to get on deck; and learning to a certainty that
   the ship would not sail till the next day, I resolved to go ashore, and
   walk about till dark, and then return and sleep out the night in the
   forecastle. So I walked about all over, till I was weary, and went into
   a mean liquor shop to rest; for having my tarpaulin on, and not looking
   very gentlemanly, I was afraid to go into any better place, for fear of
   being driven out. Here I sat till I began to feel very hungry; and
   seeing some doughnuts on the counter, I began to think what a fool I had
   been, to throw away my last penny; for the doughnuts were but a penny
   apiece, and they looked very plump, and fat, and round. I never saw
   doughnuts look so enticing before; especially when a negro came in, and
   ate one before my eyes. At last I thought I would fill up a little by
   drinking a glass of water; having read somewhere that this was a good
   plan to follow in a case like the present. I did not feel thirsty, but
   only hungry; so had much ado to get down the water; for it tasted warm;
   and the tumbler had an ugly flavor; the negro had been drinking some
   spirits out of it just before.
   I marched off again, every once in a while stopping to take in some more
   water, and being very careful not to step into the same shop twice, till
   night came on, and I found myself soaked through, for it had been
   raining more or less all day. As I went to the ship, I could not help
   thinking how lonesome it would be, to spend the whole night in that damp
   and dark forecastle, without light or fire, and nothing to lie on but
   the bare boards of my bunk. However, to drown all such thoughts, I
   gulped down another glass of water, though I was wet enough outside and
   in by this time; and trying to put on a bold look, as if I had just been
   eating a hearty meal, I stepped aboard the ship.
   The man in the big pea-jacket was not to be seen; but on going forward I
   unexpectedly found a young lad there, about my own age; and as soon as
   he opened his mouth I knew he was not an American. He talked such a
   curious language though, half English and half gibberish, that I knew
   not what to make of him; and was a little astonished, when he told me he
   was an English boy, from Lancashire.
   It seemed, he had come over from Liverpool in this very ship on her last
   voyage, as a steerage passenger; but finding that he would have to work
   very hard to get along in America, and getting home-sick into the
   bargain, he had arranged with the captain to' work his passage back.
   I was glad to have some company, and tried to get him conversing; but
   found he was the most stupid and ignorant boy I had ever met with. I
   asked him something about the river Thames; when he said that he hadn't
   traveled any in America and didn't know any thing about the rivers here.
   And when I told him the river Thames was in England, he showed no
   surprise or shame at his ignorance, but only looked ten times more
   stupid than before.
   At last we went below into the forecastle, and both getting into the
   same bunk, stretched ourselves out on the planks, and I tried my best to
   get asleep. But though my companion soon began to snore very loud, for
   me, I could not forget myself, owing to the horrid smell of the place,
   my being so wet, cold, and hungry, and besides all that, I felt damp and
   clammy about the heart. I lay turning over and over, listening to the
   Lancashire boy's snoring, till at last I felt so, that I had to go on
   deck; and there I walked till morning, which I thought would never come.
   As soon as I thought the groceries on the wharf would be open I left the
   ship and went to make my breakfast of another glass of water. But this
   made me very qualmish; and soon I felt sick as death; my head was dizzy;
   and I went staggering along the walk, almost blind. At last I dropt on a
   heap of chain-cable, and shutting my eyes hard, did my best to rally
   myself, in which I succeeded, at last, enough to get up and walk off.
   Then I thought that I had done wrong in not returning to my friend's
   house the day before; and would have walked there now, as it was, only
   it was at least three miles up town; too far for me to walk in such a
   state, and I had no sixpence to ride in an omnibus.
   VI. HE IS INITIATED IN THE BUSINESS OF CLEANING OUT THE PIG-PEN, AND
   SLUSHING DOWN THE TOP-MAST
   By the time I got back to the ship, every thing was in an uproar. The
   pea-jacket man was there, ordering about a good many men in the rigging,
   and people were bringing off chickens, and pigs, and beef, and
   vegetables from the shore. Soon after, another man, in a striped calico
   shirt, a short blue jacket and beaver hat, made his appearance, and went
   to ordering about the man in the big pea-jacket; and at last the captain
   came up the side, and began to order about both of them.
