   
   LI. THE EMIGRANTS
   After the first miserable weather we experienced at sea, we had
   intervals of foul and fair, mostly the former, however, attended with
   head winds', till at last, after a three days' fog and rain, the sun
   rose cheerily one morning, and showed us Cape Clear. Thank heaven, we
   were out of the weather emphatically called "Channel weather," and the
   last we should see of the eastern hemisphere was now in plain sight, and
   all the rest was broad ocean.
   Land ho! was cried, as the dark purple headland grew out of the north.
   At the cry, the Irish emigrants came rushing up the hatchway, thinking
   America itself was at hand.
   "Where is it?" cried one of them, running out a little way on the
   bowsprit. "Is that it?"
   "Aye, it doesn't look much like ould Ireland, does it?" said Jackson.
   "Not a bit, honey:--and how long before we get there? to-night?"
   Nothing could exceed the disappointment and grief of the emigrants, when
   they were at last informed, that the land to the north was their own
   native island, which, after leaving three or four weeks previous in a
   steamboat for Liverpool, was now close to them again; and that, after
   newly voyaging so many days from the Mersey, the Highlander was only
   bringing them in view of the original home whence they started.
   They were the most simple people I had ever seen. They seemed to have no
   adequate idea of distances; and to them, America must have seemed as a
   place just over a river. Every morning some of them came on deck, to see
   how much nearer we were: and one old man would stand for hours together,
   looking straight off from the bows, as if he expected to see New York
   city every minute, when, perhaps, we were yet two thousand miles
   distant, and steering, moreover, against a head wind.
   The only thing that ever diverted this poor old man from his earnest
   search for land, was the occasional appearance of porpoises under the
   bows; when he would cry out at the top of his voice--"Look, look, ye
   divils! look at the great pigs of the sea!"
   At last, the emigrants began to think, that the ship had played them
   false; and that she was bound for the East Indies, or some other remote
   place; and one night, Jackson set a report going among them, that Riga
   purposed taking them to Barbary, and selling them all for slaves; but
   though some of the old women almost believed it, and a great weeping
   ensued among the children, yet the men knew better than to believe such
   a ridiculous tale.
   Of all the emigrants, my Italian boy Carlo, seemed most at his ease. He
   would lie all day in a dreamy mood, sunning himself in the long boat,
   and gazing out on the sea. At night, he would bring up his organ, and
   play for several hours; much to the delight of his fellow voyagers, who
   blessed him and his organ again and again; and paid him for his music by
   furnishing him his meals. Sometimes, the steward would come forward,
   when it happened to be very much of a moonlight, with a message from the
   cabin, for Carlo to repair to the quarterdeck, and entertain the
   gentlemen and ladies.
   There was a fiddler on board, as will presently be seen; and sometimes,
   by urgent entreaties, he was induced to unite his music with Carlo's,
   for the benefit of the cabin occupants; but this was only twice or
   thrice: for this fiddler deemed himself considerably elevated above the
   other steerage-passengers; and did not much fancy the idea of fiddling
   to strangers; and thus wear out his elbow, while persons, entirely
   unknown to him, and in whose welfare he felt not the slightest interest,
   were curveting about in famous high spirits. So for the most part, the
   gentlemen and ladies were fain to dance as well as they could to my
   little Italian's organ.
   It was the most accommodating organ in the world; for it could play any
   tune that was called for; Carlo pulling in and out the ivory knobs at
   one side, and so manufacturing melody at pleasure.
   True, some censorious gentlemen cabin-passengers protested, that such or
   such an air, was not precisely according to Handel or Mozart; and some
   ladles, whom I overheard talking about throwing their nosegays to
   Malibran at Covent Garden, assured the attentive Captain Riga, that
   Carlo's organ was a most wretched affair, and made a horrible din.
   "Yes, ladies," said the captain, bowing, "by your leave, I think Carlo's
   organ must have lost its mother, for it squeals like a pig running after
   its dam."
   Harry was incensed at these criticisms; and yet these cabin-people were
   all ready enough to dance to poor Carlo's music.
   "Carlo"--said I, one night, as he was marching forward from the quarter-
   deck, after one of these sea-quadrilles, which took place during my
   watch on deck:--"Carlo"--said I, "what do the gentlemen and ladies give
   you for playing?"
   "Look!"--and he showed me three copper medals of Britannia and her
   shield--three English pennies.
