   
   Now, whenever we discover a dislike in us, toward any one, we should
   ever be a little suspicious of ourselves. It may be, therefore, that the
   natural antipathy with which almost all seamen and steerage-passengers,
   regard the inmates of the cabin, was one cause at least, of my not
   feeling very charitably disposed toward them, myself.
   Yes: that might have been; but nevertheless, I will let nature have her
   own way for once; and here declare roundly, that, however it was, I
   cherished a feeling toward these cabin-passengers, akin to contempt. Not
   because they happened to be cabin-passengers: not at all: but only
   because they seemed the most finical, miserly, mean men and women, that
   ever stepped over the Atlantic.
   One of them was an old fellow in a robust looking coat, with broad
   skirts; he had a nose like a bottle of port-wine; and would stand for a
   whole hour, with his legs straddling apart, and his hands deep down in
   his breeches pockets, as if he had two mints at work there, coining
   guineas. He was an abominable looking old fellow, with cold, fat,
   jelly-like eyes; and avarice, heartlessness, and sensuality stamped all
   over him. He seemed all the time going through some process of mental
   arithmetic; doing sums with dollars and cents: his very mouth, wrinkled
   and drawn up at the corners, looked like a purse. When he dies, his
   skull ought to be turned into a savings box, with the till-hole between
   his teeth.
   Another of the cabin inmates, was a middle-aged Londoner, in a comical
   Cockney-cut coat, with a pair of semicircular tails: so that he looked
   as if he were sitting in a swing. He wore a spotted neckerchief; a
   short, little, fiery-red vest; and striped pants, very thin in the calf,
   but very full about the waist. There was nothing describable about him
   but his dress; for he had such a meaningless face, I can not remember
   it; though I have a vague impression, that it looked at the time, as if
   its owner was laboring under the mumps.
   Then there were two or three buckish looking young fellows, among the
   rest; who were all the time playing at cards on the poop, under the lee
   of the spanker; or smoking cigars on the taffrail; or sat quizzing the
   emigrant women with opera-glasses, leveled through the windows of the
   upper cabin. These sparks frequently called for the steward to help them
   to brandy and water, and talked about going on to Washington, to see
   Niagara Falls.
   There was also an old gentleman, who had brought with him three or four
   heavy files of the London Times, and other papers; and he spent all his
   hours in reading them, on the shady side of the deck, with one leg
   crossed over the other; and without crossed legs, he never read at all.
   That was indispensable to the proper understanding of what he studied.
   He growled terribly, when disturbed by the sailors, who now and then
   were obliged to move him to get at the ropes.
   As for the ladies, I have nothing to say concerning them; for ladies are
   like creeds; if you can not speak well of them, say nothing.
   LII. THE EMIGRANTS' KITCHEN
   I have made some mention of the "galley," or great stove for the
   steerage passengers, which was planted over the main hatches.
   During the outward-bound passage, there were so few occupants of the
   steerage, that they had abundant room to do their cooking at this
   galley. But it was otherwise now; for we had four or five hundred in the
   steerage; and all their cooking was to be done by one fire; a pretty
   large one, to be sure, but, nevertheless, small enough, considering the
   number to be accommodated, and the fact that the fire was only to be
   kindled at certain hours.
   For the emigrants in these ships are under a sort of martial-law; and in
   all their affairs are regulated by the despotic ordinances of the
   captain. And though it is evident, that to a certain extent this is
   necessary, and even indispensable; yet, as at sea no appeal lies beyond
   the captain, he too often makes unscrupulous use of his power. And as
   for going to law with him at the end of the voyage, you might as well go
   to law with the Czar of Russia.
   At making the fire, the emigrants take turns; as it is often very
   disagreeable work, owing to the pitching of the ship, and the heaving of
   the spray over the uncovered "galley." Whenever I had the morning watch,
   from four to eight, I was sure to see some poor fellow crawling up from
   below about daybreak, and go to groping over the deck after bits of
   rope-yarn, or tarred canvas, for kindling-stuff. And no sooner would the
   fire be fairly made, than up came the old women, and men, and children;
   each armed with an iron pot or saucepan; and invariably a great tumult
   ensued, as to whose turn to cook came next; sometimes the more
   quarrelsome would fight, and upset each other's pots and pans.
   Once, an English lad came up with a little coffee-pot, which he managed
   to crowd in between two pans. This done, he went below. Soon after a
   great strapping Irishman, in knee-breeches and bare calves, made his
   appearance; and eying the row of things on the fire, asked whose
   coffee-pot that was; upon being told, he removed it, and put his own in
   its place; saying something about that individual place belonging to
   him; and with that, he turned aside.
   Not long after, the boy came along again; and seeing his pot removed,
   made a violent exclamation, and replaced it; which the Irishman no
   sooner perceived, than he rushed at him, with his fists doubled. The boy
   snatched up the boiling coffee, and spirted its contents all about the
   fellow's bare legs; which incontinently began to dance involuntary
   hornpipes and fandangoes, as a preliminary to giving chase to the boy,
   who by this time, however, had decamped.
   Many similar scenes occurred every day; nor did a single day pass, but
   scores of the poor people got no chance whatever to do their cooking.
   This was bad enough; but it was a still more miserable thing, to see
   these poor emigrants wrangling and fighting together for the want of the
   most ordinary accommodations. But thus it is, that the very hardships to
   which such beings are subjected, instead of uniting them, only tends, by
   imbittering their tempers, to set them against each other; and thus they
   themselves drive the strongest rivet into the chain, by which their
   social superiors hold them subject.
