   
   It was with a most reluctant hand, that every evening in the second
   dog-watch, at the mate's command, I would march up to the fire, and
   giving notice to the assembled crowd, that the time was come to
   extinguish it, would dash it out with my bucket of salt water; though
   many, who had long waited for a chance to cook, had now to go away
   disappointed.
   The staple food of the Irish emigrants was oatmeal and water, boiled
   into what is sometimes called mush; by the Dutch is known as supaan; by
   sailors burgoo; by the New Englanders hasty-pudding; in which
   hasty-pudding, by the way, the poet Barlow found the materials for a
   sort of epic.
   Some of the steerage passengers, however, were provided with
   sea-biscuit, and other perennial food, that was eatable all the year
   round, fire or no fire.
   There were several, moreover, who seemed better to do in the world than
   the rest; who were well furnished with hams, cheese, Bologna sausages,
   Dutch herrings, alewives, and other delicacies adapted to the
   contingencies of a voyager in the steerage.
   There was a little old Englishman on board, who had been a grocer
   ashore, whose greasy trunks seemed all pantries; and he was constantly
   using himself for a cupboard, by transferring their contents into his
   own interior. He was a little light of head, I always thought. He
   particularly doated on his long strings of sausages; and would sometimes
   take them out, and play with them, wreathing them round him, like an
   Indian juggler with charmed snakes. What with this diversion, and eating
   his cheese, and helping himself from an inexhaustible junk bottle, and
   smoking his pipe, and meditating, this crack-pated grocer made time jog
   along with him at a tolerably easy pace.
   But by far the most considerable man in the steerage, in point of
   pecuniary circumstances at least, was a slender little pale-faced
   English tailor, who it seemed had engaged a passage for himself and wife
   in some imaginary section of the ship, called the second cabin, which
   was feigned to combine the comforts of the first cabin with the
   cheapness of the steerage. But it turned out that this second cabin was
   comprised in the after part of the steerage itself, with nothing
   intervening but a name. So to his no small disgust, he found himself
   herding with the rabble; and his complaints to the captain were
   unheeded.
   This luckless tailor was tormented the whole voyage by his wife, who was
   young and handsome; just such a beauty as farmers'-boys fall in love
   with; she had bright eyes, and red cheeks, and looked plump and happy.
   She was a sad coquette; and did not turn away, as she was bound to do,
   from the dandy glances of the cabin bucks, who ogled her through their
   double-barreled opera glasses. This enraged the tailor past telling; he
   would remonstrate with his wife, and scold her; and lay his matrimonial
   commands upon her, to go below instantly, out of sight. But the lady was
   not to be tyrannized over; and so she told him. Meantime, the bucks
   would be still framing her in their lenses, mightily enjoying the fun.
   The last resources of the poor tailor would be, to start up, and make a
   dash at the rogues, with clenched fists; but upon getting as far as the
   mainmast, the mate would accost him from over the rope that divided
   them, and beg leave to communicate the fact, that he could come no
   further. This unfortunate tailor was also a fiddler; and when fairly
   baited into desperation, would rush for his instrument, and try to get
   rid of his wrath by playing the most savage, remorseless airs he could
   think of.
   While thus employed, perhaps his wife would accost him--
   "Billy, my dear;" and lay her soft hand on his shoulder.
   But Billy, he only fiddled harder.
   "Billy, my love!"
   The bow went faster and faster.
   "Come, now, Billy, my dear little fellow, let's make it all up;" and she
   bent over his knees, looking bewitchingly up at him, with her
   irresistible eyes.
   Down went fiddle and bow; and the couple would sit together for an hour
   or two, as pleasant and affectionate as possible.
   But the next day, the chances were, that the old feud would be renewed,
   which was certain to be the case at the first glimpse of an opera-glass
   from the cabin.
   LIII. THE HORATII AND CURIATII
