   
   With a slight alteration, I might begin this chapter after the manner of
   Livy, in the 24th section of his first book:--"It happened, that in each
   family were three twin brothers, between whom there was little disparity
   in point of age or of strength."
   Among the steerage passengers of the Highlander, were two women from
   Armagh, in Ireland, widows and sisters, who had each three twin sons,
   born, as they said, on the same day.
   They were ten years old. Each three of these six cousins were as like
   as the mutually reflected figures in a kaleidoscope; and like the forms
   seen in a kaleidoscope, together, as well as separately, they seemed to
   form a complete figure. But, though besides this fraternal likeness, all
   six boys bore a strong cousin-german resemblance to each other; yet, the
   O'Briens were in disposition quite the reverse of the O'Regans. The
   former were a timid, silent trio, who used to revolve around their
   mother's waist, and seldom quit the maternal orbit; whereas, the
   O'Regans were "broths of boys," full of mischief and fun, and given to
   all manner of devilment, like the tails of the comets.
   Early every morning, Mrs. O'Regan emerged from the steerage, driving her
   spirited twins before her, like a riotous herd of young steers; and made
   her way to the capacious deck-tub, full of salt water, pumped up from
   the sea, for the purpose of washing down the ship. Three splashes, and
   the three boys were ducking and diving together in the brine; their
   mother engaged in shampooing them, though it was haphazard sort of work
   enough; a rub here, and a scrub there, as she could manage to fasten on
   a stray limb.
   "Pat, ye divil, hould still while I wash ye. Ah! but it's you, Teddy,
   you rogue. Arrah, now, Mike, ye spalpeen, don't be mixing your legs up
   with Pat's."
   The little rascals, leaping and scrambling with delight, enjoyed the
   sport mightily; while this indefatigable, but merry matron, manipulated
   them all over, as if it were a matter of conscience.
   Meanwhile, Mrs. O'Brien would be standing on the boatswain's locker--or
   rope and tar-pot pantry in the vessel's bows--with a large old quarto
   Bible, black with age, laid before her between the knight-heads, and
   reading aloud to her three meek little lambs.
   The sailors took much pleasure in the deck-tub performances of the
   O'Regans, and greatly admired them always for their archness and
   activity; but the tranquil O'Briens they did not fancy so much. More
   especially they disliked the grave matron herself; hooded in rusty
   black; and they had a bitter grudge against her book. To that, and the
   incantations muttered over it, they ascribed the head winds that haunted
   us; and Blunt, our Irish cockney, really believed that Mrs. O'Brien
   purposely came on deck every morning, in order to secure a foul wind for
   the next ensuing twenty-four hours.
   At last, upon her coming forward one morning, Max the Dutchman accosted
   her, saying he was sorry for it, but if she went between the
   knight-heads again with her book, the crew would throw it overboard for
   her.
   Now, although contrasted in character, there existed a great warmth of
   affection between the two families of twins, which upon this occasion
   was curiously manifested.
   Notwithstanding the rebuke and threat of the sailor, the widow silently
   occupied her old place; and with her children clustering round her,
   began her low, muttered reading, standing right in the extreme bows of
   the ship, and slightly leaning over them, as if addressing the
   multitudinous waves from a floating pulpit. Presently Max came behind
   her, snatched the book from her hands, and threw it overboard. The widow
   gave a wail, and her boys set up a cry. Their cousins, then ducking in
   the water close by, at once saw the cause of the cry; and springing from
   the tub, like so many dogs, seized Max by the legs, biting and striking
   at him: which, the before timid little O'Briens no sooner perceived,
   than they, too, threw themselves on the enemy, and the amazed seaman
   found himself baited like a bull by all six boys.
   And here it gives me joy to record one good thing on the part of the
   mate. He saw the fray, and its beginning; and rushing forward, told Max
   that he would harm the boys at his peril; while he cheered them on, as
   if rejoiced at their giving the fellow such a tussle. At last Max,
   sorely scratched, bit, pinched, and every way aggravated, though of
   course without a serious bruise, cried out "enough!" and the assailants
   were ordered to quit him; but though the three O'Briens obeyed, the
   three O'Regans hung on to him like leeches, and had to be dragged off.
   "There now, you rascal," cried the mate, "throw overboard another Bible,
   and I'll send you after it without a bowline."
   This event gave additional celebrity to the twins throughout the vessel.
   That morning all six were invited to the quarter-deck, and reviewed by
   the cabin-passengers, the ladies manifesting particular interest in
   them, as they always do concerning twins, which some of them show in
   public parks and gardens, by stopping to look at them, and questioning
   their nurses.
   "And were you all born at one time?" asked an old lady, letting her eye
   run in wonder along the even file of white heads.
   "Indeed, an' we were," said Teddy; "wasn't we, mother?"
   Many more questions were asked and answered, when a collection was taken
   up for their benefit among these magnanimous cabin-passengers, which
   resulted in starting all six boys in the world with a penny apiece.
   I never could look at these little fellows without an inexplicable
   feeling coming over me; and though there was nothing so very remarkable
   or unprecedented about them, except the singular coincidence of two
   sisters simultaneously making the world such a generous present; yet,
   the mere fact of there being twins always seemed curious; in fact, to me
   at least, all twins are prodigies; and still I hardly know why this
   should be; for all of us in our own persons furnish numerous examples of
   the same phenomenon. Are not our thumbs twins? A regular Castor and
   Pollux? And all of our fingers? Are not our arms, hands, legs, feet,
   eyes, ears, all twins; born at one birth, and as much alike as they
   possibly can be?
   Can it be, that the Greek grammarians invented their dual number for the
   particular benefit of twins?
