   
   LIV. SOME SUPERIOR OLD NAIL-ROD AND PIG-TAIL
   It has been mentioned how advantageously my shipmates disposed of their
   tobacco in Liverpool; but it is to be related how those nefarious
   commercial speculations of theirs reduced them to sad extremities in the
   end.
   True to their improvident character, and seduced by the high prices paid
   for the weed in England, they had there sold off by far the greater
   portion of what tobacco they had; even inducing the mate to surrender
   the portion he had secured under lock and key by command of the
   Custom-house officers. So that when the crew were about two weeks out,
   on the homeward-bound passage, it became sorrowfully evident that
   tobacco was at a premium.
   Now, one of the favorite pursuits of sailors during a dogwatch below at
   sea is cards; and though they do not understand whist, cribbage, and
   games of that kidney, yet they are adepts at what is called "High-low-
   Jack-and-the-game," which name, indeed, has a Jackish and nautical
   flavor. Their stakes are generally so many plugs of tobacco, which,
   like rouleaux of guineas, are piled on their chests when they play.
   Judge, then, the wicked zest with which the Highlander's crew now
   shuffled and dealt the pack; and how the interest curiously and
   invertedly increased, as the stakes necessarily became less and less;
   and finally resolved themselves into "chaws."
   So absorbed, at last, did they become at this business, that some of
   them, after being hard at work during a nightwatch on deck, would rob
   themselves of rest below, in order to have a brush at the cards. And as
   it is very difficult sleeping in the presence of gamblers; especially if
   they chance to be sailors, whose conversation at all times is apt to be
   boisterous; these fellows would often be driven out of the forecastle by
   those who desired to rest. They were obliged to repair on deck, and make
   a card-table of it; and invariably, in such cases, there was a great
   deal of contention, a great many ungentlemanly charges of nigging and
   cheating; and, now and then, a few parenthetical blows were exchanged.
   But this was not so much to be wondered at, seeing they could see but
   very little, being provided with no light but that of a midnight sky;
   and the cards, from long wear and rough usage, having become exceedingly
   torn and tarry, so much so, that several members of the four suits might
   have seceded from their respective clans, and formed into a fifth tribe,
   under the name of "Tar-spots."
   Every day the tobacco grew scarcer and scarcer; till at last it became
   necessary to adopt the greatest possible economy in its use. The modicum
   constituting an ordinary "chaw," was made to last a whole day; and at
   night, permission being had from the cook, this self-same "chaw" was
   placed in the oven of the stove, and there dried; so as to do duty in a
   pipe.
   In the end not a plug was to be had; and deprived of a solace and a
   stimulus, on which sailors so much rely while at sea, the crew became
   absent, moody, and sadly tormented with the hypos. They were something
   like opium-smokers, suddenly cut off from their drug. They would sit on
   their chests, forlorn and moping; with a steadfast sadness, eying the
   forecastle lamp, at which they had lighted so many a pleasant pipe. With
   touching eloquence they recalled those happier evenings--the time of
   smoke and vapor; when, after a whole day's delectable "chawing," they
   beguiled themselves with their genial, and most companionable puffs.
   One night, when they seemed more than usually cast down and
   disconsolate, Blunt, the Irish cockney, started up suddenly with an idea
   in his head--"Boys, let's search under the bunks!" Bless you, Blunt! what
   a happy conceit! Forthwith, the chests were dragged out; the dark places
   explored; and two sticks of nail-rod tobacco, and several old "chaws,"
   thrown aside by sailors on some previous voyage, were their cheering
   reward. They were impartially divided by Jackson, who, upon this
   occasion, acquitted himself to the satisfaction of all.
   Their mode of dividing this tobacco was the rather curious one generally
   adopted by sailors, when the highest possible degree of impartiality is
   desirable. I will describe it, recommending its earnest consideration to
   all heirs, who may hereafter divide an inheritance; for if they adopted
   this nautical method, that universally slanderous aphorism of Lavater
   would be forever rendered nugatory--"Expert not to understand any man
   till you have divided with him an inheritance."
   The nail-rods they cut as evenly as possible into as many parts as there
   were men to be supplied; and this operation having been performed in the
   presence of all, Jackson, placing the tobacco before him, his face to
   the wall, and back to the company, struck one of the bits of weed with
   his knife, crying out, "Whose is this?" Whereupon a respondent,
   previously pitched upon, replied, at a venture, from the opposite corner
   of the forecastle, "Blunt's;" and to Blunt it went; and so on, in like
   manner, till all were served.
   I put it to you, lawyers--shade of Blackstone, I invoke you--if a more
   impartial procedure could be imagined than this?
   But the nail-rods and last-voyage "chaws" were soon gone, and then,
   after a short interval of comparative gayety, the men again drooped, and
   relapsed into gloom.
   They soon hit upon an ingenious device, however--but not altogether new
   among seamen--to allay the severity of the depression under which they
   languished. Ropes were unstranded, and the yarns picked apart; and, cut
   up into small bits, were used as a substitute for the weed. Old ropes
   were preferred; especially those which had long lain in the hold, and
   had contracted an epicurean dampness, making still richer their ancient,
   cheese-like flavor.
   In the middle of most large ropes, there is a straight, central part,
   round which the exterior strands are twisted. When in picking oakum,
   upon various occasions, I have chanced, among the old junk used at such
   times, to light upon a fragment of this species of rope, I have ever
   taken, I know not what kind of strange, nutty delight in untwisting it
   slowly, and gradually coming upon its deftly hidden and aromatic
   "heart;" for so this central piece is denominated.
   It is generally of a rich, tawny, Indian hue, somewhat inclined to
   luster; is exceedingly agreeable to the touch; diffuses a pungent odor,
   as of an old dusty bottle of Port, newly opened above ground; and,
   altogether, is an object which no man, who enjoys his dinners, could
   refrain from hanging over, and caressing.
