   
   Nor is this delectable morsel of old junk wanting in many interesting,
   mournful, and tragic suggestions. Who can say in what gales it may have
   been; in what remote seas it may have sailed? How many stout masts of
   seventy-fours and frigates it may have staid in the tempest? How deep it
   may have lain, as a hawser, at the bottom of strange harbors? What
   outlandish fish may have nibbled at it in the water, and what
   un-catalogued sea-fowl may have pecked at it, when forming part of a
   lofty stay or a shroud?
   Now, this particular part of the rope, this nice little "cut" it was,
   that among the sailors was the most eagerly sought after. And getting
   hold of a foot or two of old cable, they would cut into it lovingly, to
   see whether it had any "tenderloin."
   For my own part, nevertheless, I can not say that this tit-bit was at
   all an agreeable one in the mouth; however pleasant to the sight of an
   antiquary, or to the nose of an epicure in nautical fragrancies. Indeed,
   though possibly I might have been mistaken, I thought it had rather an
   astringent, acrid taste; probably induced by the tar, with which the
   flavor of all ropes is more or less vitiated. But the sailors seemed to
   like it, and at any rate nibbled at it with great gusto. They converted
   one pocket of their trowsers into a junk-shop, and when solicited by a
   shipmate for a "chaw," would produce a small coil of rope.
   Another device adopted to alleviate their hardships, was the
   substitution of dried tea-leaves, in place of tobacco, for their pipes.
   No one has ever supped in a forecastle at sea, without having been
   struck by the prodigious residuum of tea-leaves, or cabbage stalks, in
   his tin-pot of bohea. There was no lack of material to supply every
   pipe-bowl among us.
   I had almost forgotten to relate the most noteworthy thing in this
   matter; namely, that notwithstanding the general scarcity of the genuine
   weed, Jackson was provided with a supply; nor did it give out, until
   very shortly previous to our arrival in port.
   In the lowest depths of despair at the loss of their precious solace,
   when the sailors would be seated inconsolable as the Babylonish
   captives, Jackson would sit cross-legged in his bunk, which was an upper
   one, and enveloped in a cloud of tobacco smoke, would look down upon the
   mourners below, with a sardonic grin at their forlornness.
   He recalled to mind their folly in selling for filthy lucre, their
   supplies of the weed; he painted their stupidity; he enlarged upon the
   sufferings they had brought upon themselves; he exaggerated those
   sufferings, and every way derided, reproached, twitted, and hooted at
   them. No one dared to return his scurrilous animadversions, nor did any
   presume to ask him to relieve their necessities out of his fullness. On
   the contrary, as has been just related, they divided with him the
   nail-rods they found.
   The extraordinary dominion of this one miserable Jackson, over twelve or
   fourteen strong, healthy tars, is a riddle, whose solution must be left
   to the philosophers.
   LV. DRAWING NIGH TO THE LAST SCENE IN JACKSON'S CAREER
   The closing allusion to Jackson in the chapter preceding, reminds me of
   a circumstance--which, perhaps, should have been mentioned before--that
   after we had been at sea about ten days, he pronounced himself too
   unwell to do duty, and accordingly went below to his bunk. And here,
   with the exception of a few brief intervals of sunning himself in fine
   weather, he remained on his back, or seated cross-legged, during the
   remainder of the homeward-bound passage.
   Brooding there, in his infernal gloom, though nothing but a castaway
   sailor in canvas trowsers, this man was still a picture, worthy to be
   painted by the dark, moody hand of Salvator. In any of that master's
   lowering sea-pieces, representing the desolate crags of Calabria, with a
   midnight shipwreck in the distance, this Jackson's would have been the
   face to paint for the doomed vessel's figurehead, seamed and blasted by
   lightning.
   Though the more sneaking and cowardly of my shipmates whispered among
   themselves, that Jackson, sure of his wages, whether on duty or off, was
   only feigning indisposition, nevertheless it was plain that, from his
   excesses in Liverpool, the malady which had long fastened its fangs in
   his flesh, was now gnawing into his vitals.
   His cheek became thinner and yellower, and the bones projected like
   those of a skull. His snaky eyes rolled in red sockets; nor could he
   lift his hand without a violent tremor; while his racking cough many a
   time startled us from sleep. Yet still in his tremulous grasp he swayed
   his scepter, and ruled us all like a tyrant to the last.
   The weaker and weaker he grew, the more outrageous became his treatment
   of the crew. The prospect of the speedy and unshunable death now before
   him, seemed to exasperate his misanthropic soul into madness; and as if
   he had indeed sold it to Satan, he seemed determined to die with a curse
   between his teeth.
   I can never think of him, even now, reclining in his bunk, and with
   short breaths panting out his maledictions, but I am reminded of that
   misanthrope upon the throne of the world--the diabolical Tiberius at
   Caprese; who even in his self-exile, imbittered by bodily pangs, and
   unspeakable mental terrors only known to the damned on earth, yet did
   not give over his blasphemies but endeavored to drag down with him to
   his own perdition, all who came within the evil spell of his power. And
   though Tiberius came in the succession of the Caesars, and though
   unmatchable Tacitus has embalmed his carrion, yet do I account this
   Yankee Jackson full as dignified a personage as he, and as well meriting
   his lofty gallows in history; even though he was a nameless vagabond
   without an epitaph, and none, but I, narrate what he was. For there is
   no dignity in wickedness, whether in purple or rags; and hell is a
   democracy of devils, where all are equals. There, Nero howls side by
   side with his own malefactors. If Napoleon were truly but a martial
   murderer, I pay him no more homage than I would a felon. Though Milton's
   Satan dilutes our abhorrence with admiration, it is only because he is
   not a genuine being, but something altered from a genuine original. We
   gather not from the four gospels alone, any high-raised fancies
   concerning this Satan; we only know him from thence as the
   personification of the essence of evil, which, who but pickpockets and
   burglars will admire? But this takes not from the merit of our
   high-priest of poetry; it only enhances it, that with such unmitigated
   evil for his material, he should build up his most goodly structure. But
   in historically canonizing on earth the condemned below, and lifting up
   and lauding the illustrious damned, we do but make examples of
   wickedness; and call upon ambition to do some great iniquity, and be
   sure of fame.
