   
   LVI. UNDER THE LEE OF THE LONG-BOAT, REDBURN AND HARRY HOLD CONFIDENTIAL
   COMMUNION
   A sweet thing is a song; and though the Hebrew captives hung their harps
   on the willows, that they could not sing the melodies of Palestine
   before the haughty beards of the Babylonians; yet, to themselves, those
   melodies of other times and a distant land were as sweet as the June dew
   on Hermon.
   And poor Harry was as the Hebrews. He, too, had been carried away
   captive, though his chief captor and foe was himself; and he, too, many
   a night, was called upon to sing for those who through the day had
   insulted and derided him.
   His voice was just the voice to proceed from a small, silken person like
   his; it was gentle and liquid, and meandered and tinkled through the
   words of a song, like a musical brook that winds and wantons by pied and
   pansied margins.
   "I can't sing to-night"--sadly said Harry to the Dutchman, who with his
   watchmates requested him to while away the middle watch with his
   melody--"I can't sing to-night. But, Wellingborough," he whispered,--and I
   stooped my ear,--"come you with me under the lee of the long-boat, and
   there I'll hum you an air."
   It was "The Banks of the Blue Moselle."
   Poor, poor Harry! and a thousand times friendless and forlorn! To be
   singing that thing, which was only meant to be warbled by falling
   fountains in gardens, or in elegant alcoves in drawing-rooms,--to be
   singing it here--here, as I live, under the tarry lee of our long-boat.
   But he sang, and sang, as I watched the waves, and peopled them all with
   sprites, and cried "chassez!" "hands across!" to the multitudinous
   quadrilles, all danced on the moonlit, musical floor.
   But though it went so hard with my friend to sing his songs to this
   ruffian crew, whom he hated, even in his dreams, till the foam flew from
   his mouth while he slept; yet at last I prevailed upon him to master his
   feelings, and make them subservient to his interests. For so delighted,
   even with the rudest minstrelsy, are sailors, that I well knew Harry
   possessed a spell over them, which, for the time at least, they could
   not resist; and it might induce them to treat with more deference the
   being who was capable of yielding them such delight. Carlo's organ they
   did not so much care for; but the voice of my Bury blade was an
   accordion in their ears.
   So one night, on the windlass, he sat and sang; and from the ribald
   jests so common to sailors, the men slid into silence at every verse.
   Hushed, and more hushed they grew, till at last Harry sat among them
   like Orpheus among the charmed leopards and tigers. Harmless now the
   fangs with which they were wont to tear my zebra, and backward curled in
   velvet paws; and fixed their once glaring eyes in fascinated and
   fascinating brilliancy. Ay, still and hissingly all, for a time, they
   relinquished their prey.
   Now, during the voyage, the treatment of the crew threw Harry more and
   more upon myself for companionship; and few can keep constant company
   with another, without revealing some, at least, of their secrets; for
   all of us yearn for sympathy, even if we do not for love; and to be
   intellectually alone is a thing only tolerable to genius, whose
   cherisher and inspirer is solitude.
   But though my friend became more communicative concerning his past
   career than ever he had been before, yet he did not make plain many
   things in his hitherto but partly divulged history, which I was very
   curious to know; and especially he never made the remotest allusion to
   aught connected with our trip to London; while the oath of secrecy by
   which he had bound me held my curiosity on that point a captive.
   However, as it was, Harry made many very interesting disclosures; and if
   he did not gratify me more in that respect, he atoned for it in a
   measure, by dwelling upon the future, and the prospects, such as they
   were, which the future held out to him.
   He confessed that he had no money but a few shillings left from the
   expenses of our return from London; that only by selling some more of
   his clothing, could he pay for his first week's board in New York; and
   that he was altogether without any regular profession or business, upon
   which, by his own exertions, he could securely rely for support. And
   yet, he told me that he was determined never again to return to England;
   and that somewhere in America he must work out his temporal felicity.
   "I have forgotten England," he said, "and never more mean to think of
   it; so tell me, Wellingborough, what am I to do in America?"
   It was a puzzling question, and full of grief to me, who, young though I
   was, had been well rubbed, curried, and ground down to fine powder in
   the hopper of an evil fortune, and who therefore could sympathize with
   one in similar circumstances. For though we may look grave and behave
   kindly and considerately to a friend in calamity; yet, if we have never
   actually experienced something like the woe that weighs him down, we can
   not with the best grace proffer our sympathy. And perhaps there is no
   true sympathy but between equals; and it may be, that we should distrust
   that man's sincerity, who stoops to condole with us.
   So Harry and I, two friendless wanderers, beguiled many a long watch by
   talking over our common affairs. But inefficient, as a benefactor, as I
   certainly was; still, being an American, and returning to my home; even
   as he was a stranger, and hurrying from his; therefore, I stood toward
   him in the attitude of the prospective doer of the honors of my country;
   I accounted him the nation's guest. Hence, I esteemed it more befitting,
   that I should rather talk with him, than he with me: that his prospects
   and plans should engage our attention, in preference to my own.
   Now, seeing that Harry was so brave a songster, and could sing such
   bewitching airs: I suggested whether his musical talents could not be
   turned to account. The thought struck him most favorably--"Gad, my boy,
   you have hit it, you have," and then he went on to mention, that in some
   places in England, it was customary for two or three young men of highly
   respectable families, of undoubted antiquity, but unfortunately in
   lamentably decayed circumstances, and thread-bare coats--it was
   customary for two or three young gentlemen, so situated, to obtain their
   livelihood by their voices: coining their silvery songs into silvery
   shillings.
