   
   They wandered from door to door, and rang the bell--Are the ladies and
   gentlemen in? Seeing them at least gentlemanly looking, if not
   sumptuously appareled, the servant generally admitted them at once; and
   when the people entered to greet them, their spokesman would rise with a
   gentle bow, and a smile, and say, We come, ladies and gentlemen, to sing
   you a song: we are singers, at your service. And so, without waiting
   reply, forth they burst into song; and having most mellifluous voices,
   enchanted and transported all auditors; so much so, that at the
   conclusion of the entertainment, they very seldom failed to be well
   recompensed, and departed with an invitation to return again, and make
   the occupants of that dwelling once more delighted and happy.
   "Could not something of this kind now, be done in New York?" said Harry,
   "or are there no parlors with ladies in them, there?" he anxiously
   added.
   Again I assured him, as I had often done before, that New York was a
   civilized and enlightened town; with a large population, fine streets,
   fine houses, nay, plenty of omnibuses; and that for the most part, he
   would almost think himself in England; so similar to England, in
   essentials, was this outlandish America that haunted him.
   I could not but be struck--and had I not been, from my birth, as it were,
   a cosmopolite--I had been amazed at his skepticism with regard to the
   civilization of my native land. A greater patriot than myself might have
   resented his insinuations. He seemed to think that we Yankees lived in
   wigwams, and wore bear-skins. After all, Harry was a spice of a Cockney,
   and had shut up his Christendom in London.
   Having then assured him, that I could see no reason, why he should not
   play the troubadour in New York, as well as elsewhere; he suddenly
   popped upon me the question, whether I would not join him in the
   enterprise; as it would be quite out of the question to go alone on such
   a business.
   Said I, "My dear Bury, I have no more voice for a ditty, than a dumb man
   has for an oration. Sing? Such Macadamized lungs have I, that I think
   myself well off, that I can talk; let alone nightingaling."
   So that plan was quashed; and by-and-by Harry began to give up the idea
   of singing himself into a livelihood.
   "No, I won't sing for my mutton," said he--"what would Lady Georgiana
   say?"
   "If I could see her ladyship once, I might tell you, Harry," returned I,
   who did not exactly doubt him, but felt ill at ease for my bosom
   friend's conscience, when he alluded to his various noble and right
   honorable friends and relations.
   "But surely, Bury, my friend, you must write a clerkly hand, among your
   other accomplishments; and that at least, will be sure to help you."
   "I do write a hand," he gladly rejoined--"there, look at the
   implement!--do you not think, that such a hand as that might dot an i, or
   cross a t, with a touching grace and tenderness?"
   Indeed, but it did betoken a most excellent penmanship. It was small;
   and the fingers were long and thin; the knuckles softly rounded; the
   nails hemispherical at the base; and the smooth palm furnishing few
   characters for an Egyptian fortune-teller to read. It was not as the
   sturdy farmer's hand of Cincinnatus, who followed the plough and guided
   the state; but it was as the perfumed hand of Petronius Arbiter, that
   elegant young buck of a Roman, who once cut great Seneca dead in the
   forum.
   His hand alone, would have entitled my Bury blade to the suffrages of
   that Eastern potentate, who complimented Lord Byron upon his feline
   fingers, declaring that they furnished indubitable evidence of his noble
   birth. And so it did: for Lord Byron was as all the rest of us--the son
   of a man. And so are the dainty-handed, and wee-footed half-cast paupers
   in Lima; who, if their hands and feet were entitled to consideration,
   would constitute the oligarchy of all Peru.
   Folly and foolishness! to think that a gentleman is known by his
   finger-nails, like Nebuchadnezzar, when his grew long in the pasture: or
   that the badge of nobility is to be found in the smallness of the foot,
   when even a fish has no foot at all!
   Dandies! amputate yourselves, if you will; but know, and be assured, oh,
   democrats, that, like a pyramid, a great man stands on a broad base. It
   is only the brittle porcelain pagoda, that tottles on a toe.
   But though Harry's hand was lady-like looking, and had once been white
   as the queen's cambric handkerchief, and free from a stain as the
   reputation of Diana; yet, his late pulling and hauling of halyards and
   clew-lines, and his occasional dabbling in tar-pots and slush-shoes, had
   somewhat subtracted from its original daintiness.
   Often he ruefully eyed it.
   Oh! hand! thought Harry, ah, hand! what have you come to? Is it seemly,
   that you should be polluted with pitch, when you once handed countesses
   to their coaches? Is this the hand I kissed to the divine Georgiana?
   with which I pledged Lady Blessington, and ratified my bond to Lord
   Lovely? This the hand that Georgiana clasped to her bosom, when she
   vowed she was mine?--Out of sight, recreant and apostate!--deep
   down--disappear in this foul monkey-jacket pocket where I thrust you!
   After many long conversations, it was at last pretty well decided, that
   upon our arrival at New York, some means should be taken among my few
   friends there, to get Harry a place in a mercantile house, where he
   might flourish his pen, and gently exercise his delicate digits, by
   traversing some soft foolscap; in the same way that slim, pallid ladies
   are gently drawn through a park for an airing.
