   
   LVIII. THOUGH THE HIGHLANDER PUTS INTO NO HARBOR AS YET; SHE HERE AND
   THERE LEAVES MANY OF HER PASSENGERS BEHIND
   Although fast-sailing ships, blest with prosperous breezes, have
   frequently made the run across the Atlantic in eighteen days; yet, it is
   not uncommon for other vessels to be forty, or fifty, and even sixty,
   seventy, eighty, and ninety days, in making the same passage. Though in
   the latter cases, some signal calamity or incapacity must occasion so
   great a detention. It is also true, that generally the passage out from
   America is shorter than the return; which is to be ascribed to the
   prevalence of westerly winds.
   We had been outside of Cape Clear upward of twenty days, still harassed
   by head-winds, though with pleasant weather upon the whole, when we were
   visited by a succession of rain storms, which lasted the greater part of
   a week.
   During the interval, the emigrants were obliged to remain below; but
   this was nothing strange to some of them; who, not recovering, while at
   sea, from their first attack of seasickness, seldom or never made their
   appearance on deck, during the entire passage.
   During the week, now in question, fire was only once made in the public
   galley. This occasioned a good deal of domestic work to be done in the
   steerage, which otherwise would have been done in the open air. When the
   lulls of the rain-storms would intervene, some unusually cleanly
   emigrant would climb to the deck, with a bucket of slops, to toss into
   the sea. No experience seemed sufficient to instruct some of these
   ignorant people in the simplest, and most elemental principles of
   ocean-life. Spite of all lectures on the subject, several would continue
   to shun the leeward side of the vessel, with their slops. One morning,
   when it was blowing very fresh, a simple fellow pitched over a gallon or
   two of something to windward. Instantly it flew back in his face; and
   also, in the face of the chief mate, who happened to be standing by at
   the time. The offender was collared, and shaken on the spot; and
   ironically commanded, never, for the future, to throw any thing to
   windward at sea, but fine ashes and scalding hot water.
   During the frequent hard blows we experienced, the hatchways on the
   steerage were, at intervals, hermetically closed; sealing down in their
   noisome den, those scores of human beings. It was something to be
   marveled at, that the shocking fate, which, but a short time ago,
   overtook the poor passengers in a Liverpool steamer in the Channel,
   during similar stormy weather, and under similar treatment, did not
   overtake some of the emigrants of the Highlander.
   Nevertheless, it was, beyond question, this noisome confinement in so
   close, unventilated, and crowded a den: joined to the deprivation of
   sufficient food, from which many were suffering; which, helped by their
   personal uncleanliness, brought on a malignant fever.
   The first report was, that two persons were affected. No sooner was it
   known, than the mate promptly repaired to the medicine-chest in the
   cabin: and with the remedies deemed suitable, descended into the
   steerage. But the medicines proved of no avail; the invalids rapidly
   grew worse; and two more of the emigrants became infected.
   Upon this, the captain himself went to see them; and returning, sought
   out a certain alleged physician among the cabin-passengers; begging him
   to wait upon the sufferers; hinting that, thereby, he might prevent the
   disease from extending into the cabin itself. But this person denied
   being a physician; and from fear of contagion--though he did not confess
   that to be the motive--refused even to enter the steerage. The cases
   increased: the utmost alarm spread through the ship: and scenes ensued,
   over which, for the most part, a veil must be drawn; for such is the
   fastidiousness of some readers, that, many times, they must lose the
   most striking incidents in a narrative like mine.
   Many of the panic-stricken emigrants would fain now have domiciled on
   deck; but being so scantily clothed, the wretched weather--wet, cold, and
   tempestuous--drove the best part of them again below. Yet any other human
   beings, perhaps, would rather have faced the most outrageous storm, than
   continued to breathe the pestilent air of the steerage. But some of
   these poor people must have been so used to the most abasing calamities,
   that the atmosphere of a lazar-house almost seemed their natural air.
   The first four cases happened to be in adjoining bunks; and the
   emigrants who slept in the farther part of the steerage, threw up a
   barricade in front of those bunks; so as to cut off communication. But
   this was no sooner reported to the captain, than he ordered it to be
   thrown down; since it could be of no possible benefit; but would only
   make still worse, what was already direful enough.
   It was not till after a good deal of mingled threatening and coaxing,
   that the mate succeeded in getting the sailors below, to accomplish the
   captain's order.
   The sight that greeted us, upon entering, was wretched indeed. It was
   like entering a crowded jail. From the rows of rude bunks, hundreds of
   meager, begrimed faces were turned upon us; while seated upon the
   chests, were scores of unshaven men, smoking tea-leaves, and creating a
   suffocating vapor. But this vapor was better than the native air of the
   place, which from almost unbelievable causes, was fetid in the extreme.
   In every corner, the females were huddled together, weeping and
   lamenting; children were asking bread from their mothers, who had none
   to give; and old men, seated upon the floor, were leaning back against
   the heads of the water-casks, with closed eyes and fetching their breath
   with a gasp.
   At one end of the place was seen the barricade, hiding the invalids;
   while--notwithstanding the crowd--in front of it was a clear area, which
   the fear of contagion had left open.
   "That bulkhead must come down," cried the mate, in a voice that rose
   above the din. "Take hold of it, boys."
   But hardly had we touched the chests composing it, when a crowd of
   pale-faced, infuriated men rushed up; and with terrific howls, swore
   they would slay us, if we did not desist.
   "Haul it down!" roared the mate.
   But the sailors fell back, murmuring something about merchant seamen
   having no pensions in case of being maimed, and they had not shipped to
   fight fifty to one. Further efforts were made by the mate, who at last
   had recourse to entreaty; but it would not do; and we were obliged to
   depart, without achieving our object.
   About four o'clock that morning, the first four died. They were all men;
   and the scenes which ensued were frantic in the extreme. Certainly, the
   bottomless profound of the sea, over which we were sailing, concealed
   nothing more frightful.
