   
   These two men turned out to be the first and second mates of the ship.
   Thinking to make friends with the second mate, I took out an old
   tortoise-shell snuff-box of my father's, in which I had put a piece of
   Cavendish tobacco, to look sailor-like, and offered the box to him very
   politely. He stared at me a moment, and then exclaimed, "Do you think we
   take snuff aboard here, youngster? no, no, no time for snuff-taking at
   sea; don't let the 'old man' see that snuff-box; take my advice and
   pitch it overboard as quick as you can."
   I told him it was not snuff, but tobacco; when he said, he had plenty of
   tobacco of his own, and never carried any such nonsense about him as a
   tobacco-box. With that, he went off about his business, and left me
   feeling foolish enough. But I had reason to be glad he had acted thus,
   for if he had not, I think I should have offered my box to the chief
   mate, who in that case, from what I afterward learned of him, would have
   knocked me down, or done something else equally uncivil.
   As I was standing looking round me, the chief mate approached in a great
   hurry about something, and seeing me in his way, cried out, "Ashore with
   you, you young loafer! There's no stealings here; sail away, I tell you,
   with that shooting-jacket!"
   Upon this I retreated, saying that I was going out in the ship as a
   sailor.
   "A sailor!" he cried, "a barber's clerk, you mean; you going out in the
   ship? what, in that jacket? Hang me, I hope the old man hasn't been
   shipping any more greenhorns like you--he'll make a shipwreck of it if he
   has. But this is the way nowadays; to save a few dollars in seamen's
   wages, they think nothing of shipping a parcel of farmers and
   clodhoppers and baby-boys. What's your name, Pillgarlic?"
   "Redburn," said I.
   "A pretty handle to a man, that; scorch you to take hold of it; haven't
   you got any other?"
   "Wellingborough," said I.
   "Worse yet. Who had the baptizing of ye? Why didn't they call you Jack,
   or Jill, or something short and handy. But I'll baptize you over again.
   D'ye hear, sir, henceforth your name is Buttons. And now do you go,
   Buttons, and clean out that pig-pen in the long-boat; it has not been
   cleaned out since last voyage. And bear a hand about it, d'ye hear;
   there's them pigs there waiting to be put in; come, be off about it,
   now."
   Was this then the beginning of my sea-career? set to cleaning out a
   pig-pen, the very first thing?
   But I thought it best to say nothing; I had bound myself to obey orders,
   and it was too late to retreat. So I only asked for a shovel, or spade,
   or something else to work with.
   "We don't dig gardens here," was the reply; "dig it out with your
   teeth!"
   After looking round, I found a stick and went to scraping out the pen,
   which was awkward work enough, for another boat called the "jolly-boat,"
   was capsized right over the longboat, which brought them almost close
   together. These two boats were in the middle of the deck. I managed to
   crawl inside of the long-boat; and after barking my shins against the
   seats, and bumping my head a good many times, I got along to the stern,
   where the pig-pen was.
   While I was hard at work a drunken sailor peeped in, and cried out to
   his comrades, "Look here, my lads, what sort of a pig do you call this?
   Hallo! inside there! what are you 'bout there? trying to stow yourself
   away to steal a passage to Liverpool? Out of that! out of that, I say."
   But just then the mate came along and ordered this drunken rascal
   ashore.
   The pig-pen being cleaned out, I was set to work picking up some
   shavings, which lay about the deck; for there had been carpenters at
   work on board. The mate ordered me to throw these shavings into the
   long-boat at a particular place between two of the seats. But as I found
   it hard work to push the shavings through in that place, and as it
   looked wet there, I thought it would be better for the shavings as well
   as myself, to thrust them where there was a larger opening and a dry
   spot. While I was thus employed, the mate observing me, exclaimed with
   an oath, "Didn't I tell you to put those shavings somewhere else? Do
   what I tell you, now, Buttons, or mind your eye!"
   Stifling my indignation at his rudeness, which by this time I found was
   my only plan, I replied that that was not so good a place for the
   shavings as that which I myself had selected, and asked him to tell me
   why he wanted me to put them in the place he designated. Upon this, he
   flew into a terrible rage, and without explanation reiterated his order
   like a clap of thunder.
   This was my first lesson in the discipline of the sea, and I never
   forgot it. From that time I learned that sea-officers never gave reasons
   for any thing they order to be done. It is enough that they command it,
   so that the motto is, "Obey orders, though you break owners."
   I now began to feel very faint and sick again, and longed for the ship
   to be leaving the dock; for then I made no doubt we would soon be having
   something to eat. But as yet, I saw none of the sailors on board, and as
   for the men at work in the rigging, I found out that they were
   "riggers," that is, men living ashore, who worked by the day in getting
   ships ready for sea; and this I found out to my cost, for yielding to
   the kind blandishment of one of these riggers, I had swapped away my
   jackknife with him for a much poorer one of his own, thinking to secure
   a sailor friend for the voyage. At last I watched my chance, and while
   people's backs were turned, I seized a carrot from several bunches lying
   on deck, and clapping it under the skirts of my shooting-jacket, went
   forward to eat it; for I had often eaten raw carrots, which taste
   something like chestnuts. This carrot refreshed me a good deal, though
   at the expense of a little pain in my stomach. Hardly had I disposed of
   it, when I heard the chief mate's voice crying out for "Buttons." I ran
   after him, and received an order to go aloft and "slush down the
   main-top mast."
   This was all Greek to me, and after receiving the order, I stood staring
   about me, wondering what it was that was to be done. But the mate had
   turned on his heel, and made no explanations. At length I followed after
   him, and asked what I must do.
