   
   Orders were at once passed to bury the dead. But this was unnecessary.
   By their own countrymen, they were torn from the clasp of their wives,
   rolled in their own bedding, with ballast-stones, and with hurried
   rites, were dropped into the ocean.
   At this time, ten more men had caught the disease; and with a degree of
   devotion worthy all praise, the mate attended them with his medicines;
   but the captain did not again go down to them.
   It was all-important now that the steerage should be purified; and had
   it not been for the rains and squalls, which would have made it madness
   to turn such a number of women and children upon the wet and unsheltered
   decks, the steerage passengers would have been ordered above, and their
   den have been given a thorough cleansing. But, for the present, this was
   out of the question. The sailors peremptorily refused to go among the
   defilements to remove them; and so besotted were the greater part of the
   emigrants themselves, that though the necessity of the case was forcibly
   painted to them, they would not lift a hand to assist in what seemed
   their own salvation.
   The panic in the cabin was now very great; and for fear of contagion to
   themselves, the cabin passengers would fain have made a prisoner of the
   captain, to prevent him from going forward beyond the mainmast. Their
   clamors at last induced him to tell the two mates, that for the present
   they must sleep and take their meals elsewhere than in their old
   quarters, which communicated with the cabin.
   On land, a pestilence is fearful enough; but there, many can flee from
   an infected city; whereas, in a ship, you are locked and bolted in the
   very hospital itself. Nor is there any possibility of escape from it;
   and in so small and crowded a place, no precaution can effectually guard
   against contagion.
   Horrible as the sights of the steerage now were, the cabin, perhaps,
   presented a scene equally despairing. Many, who had seldom prayed
   before, now implored the merciful heavens, night and day, for fair winds
   and fine weather. Trunks were opened for Bibles; and at last, even
   prayer-meetings were held over the very table across which the loud jest
   had been so often heard.
   Strange, though almost universal, that the seemingly nearer prospect of
   that death which any body at any time may die, should produce these
   spasmodic devotions, when an everlasting Asiatic Cholera is forever
   thinning our ranks; and die by death we all must at last.
   On the second day, seven died, one of whom was the little tailor; on the
   third, four; on the fourth, six, of whom one was the Greenland sailor,
   and another, a woman in the cabin, whose death, however, was afterward
   supposed to have been purely induced by her fears. These last deaths
   brought the panic to its height; and sailors, officers,
   cabin-passengers, and emigrants--all looked upon each other like lepers.
   All but the only true leper among us--the mariner Jackson, who seemed
   elated with the thought, that for him--already in the deadly clutches of
   another disease--no danger was to be apprehended from a fever which only
   swept off the comparatively healthy. Thus, in the midst of the despair
   of the healthful, this incurable invalid was not cast down; not, at
   least, by the same considerations that appalled the rest.
   And still, beneath a gray, gloomy sky, the doomed craft beat on; now on
   this tack, now on that; battling against hostile blasts, and drenched in
   rain and spray; scarcely making an inch of progress toward her port.
   On the sixth morning, the weather merged into a gale, to which we
   stripped our ship to a storm-stay-sail. In ten hours' time, the waves
   ran in mountains; and the Highlander rose and fell like some vast buoy
   on the water. Shrieks and lamentations were driven to leeward, and
   drowned in the roar of the wind among the cordage; while we gave to the
   gale the blackened bodies of five more of the dead.
   But as the dying departed, the places of two of them were filled in the
   rolls of humanity, by the birth of two infants, whom the plague, panic,
   and gale had hurried into the world before their time. The first cry of
   one of these infants, was almost simultaneous with the splash of its
   father's body in the sea. Thus we come and we go. But, surrounded by
   death, both mothers and babes survived.
   At midnight, the wind went down; leaving a long, rolling sea; and, for
   the first time in a week, a clear, starry sky.
   In the first morning-watch, I sat with Harry on the windlass, watching
   the billows; which, seen in the night, seemed real hills, upon which
   fortresses might have been built; and real valleys, in which villages,
   and groves, and gardens, might have nestled. It was like a landscape in
   Switzerland; for down into those dark, purple glens, often tumbled the
   white foam of the wave-crests, like avalanches; while the seething and
   boiling that ensued, seemed the swallowing up of human beings.
   By the afternoon of the next day this heavy sea subsided; and we bore
   down on the waves, with all our canvas set; stun'-sails alow and aloft;
   and our best steersman at the helm; the captain himself at his
   elbow;--bowling along, with a fair, cheering breeze over the taffrail.
   The decks were cleared, and swabbed bone-dry; and then, all the
   emigrants who were not invalids, poured themselves out on deck, snuffing
   the delightful air, spreading their damp bedding in the sun, and
   regaling themselves with the generous charity of the captain, who of
   late had seen fit to increase their allowance of food. A detachment of
   them now joined a band of the crew, who proceeding into the steerage,
   with buckets and brooms, gave it a thorough cleansing, sending on deck,
   I know not how many bucketsful of defilements. It was more like cleaning
   out a stable, than a retreat for men and women. This day we buried
   three; the next day one, and then the pestilence left us, with seven
   convalescent; who, placed near the opening of the hatchway, soon rallied
   under the skillful treatment, and even tender care of the mate.
   But even under this favorable turn of affairs, much apprehension was
   still entertained, lest in crossing the Grand Banks of Newfoundland, the
   fogs, so generally encountered there, might bring on a return of the
   fever. But, to the joy of all hands, our fair wind still held on; and we
   made a rapid run across these dreaded shoals, and southward steered for
   New York.
   Our days were now fair and mild, and though the wind abated, yet we
   still ran our course over a pleasant sea. The steerage-passengers--at
   least by far the greater number--wore a still, subdued aspect, though a
   little cheered by the genial air, and the hopeful thought of soon
   reaching their port. But those who had lost fathers, husbands, wives, or
   children, needed no crape, to reveal to others, who they were. Hard and
   bitter indeed was their lot; for with the poor and desolate, grief is no
   indulgence of mere sentiment, however sincere, but a gnawing reality,
   that eats into their vital beings; they have no kind condolers, and
   bland physicians, and troops of sympathizing friends; and they must
   toil, though to-morrow be the burial, and their pallbearers throw down
   the hammer to lift up the coffin.
   How, then, with these emigrants, who, three thousand miles from home,
   suddenly found themselves deprived of brothers and husbands, with but a
   few pounds, or perhaps but a few shillings, to buy food in a strange
   land?
   As for the passengers in the cabin, who now so jocund as they? drawing
   nigh, with their long purses and goodly portmanteaus to the promised
   land, without fear of fate. One and all were generous and gay, the
   jelly-eyed old gentleman, before spoken of, gave a shilling to the
   steward.
   The lady who had died, was an elderly person, an American, returning
   from a visit to an only brother in London. She had no friend or relative
   on board, hence, as there is little mourning for a stranger dying among
   strangers, her memory had been buried with her body.
