   
   But the thing most worthy of note among these now light-hearted people
   in feathers, was the gay way in which some of them bantered others, upon
   the panic into which nearly all had been thrown.
   And since, if the extremest fear of a crowd in a panic of peril, proves
   grounded on causes sufficient, they must then indeed come to
   perish;--therefore it is, that at such times they must make up their
   minds either to die, or else survive to be taunted by their fellow-men
   with their fear. For except in extraordinary instances of exposure,
   there are few living men, who, at bottom, are not very slow to admit
   that any other living men have ever been very much nearer death than
   themselves. Accordingly, craven is the phrase too often applied to any
   one who, with however good reason, has been appalled at the prospect of
   sudden death, and yet lived to escape it. Though, should he have
   perished in conformity with his fears, not a syllable of craven would
   you hear. This is the language of one, who more than once has beheld the
   scenes, whence these principles have been deduced. The subject invites
   much subtle speculation; for in every being's ideas of death, and his
   behavior when it suddenly menaces him, lies the best index to his life
   and his faith. Though the Christian era had not then begun, Socrates
   died the death of the Christian; and though Hume was not a Christian in
   theory, yet he, too, died the death of the Christian,--humble, composed,
   without bravado; and though the most skeptical of philosophical
   skeptics, yet full of that firm, creedless faith, that embraces the
   spheres. Seneca died dictating to posterity; Petronius lightly
   discoursing of essences and love-songs; and Addison, calling upon
   Christendom to behold how calmly a Christian could die; but not even the
   last of these three, perhaps, died the best death of the Christian.
   The cabin passenger who had used to read prayers while the rest kneeled
   against the transoms and settees, was one of the merry young sparks, who
   had occasioned such agonies of jealousy to the poor tailor, now no more.
   In his rakish vest, and dangling watch-chain, this same youth, with all
   the awfulness of fear, had led the earnest petitions of his companions;
   supplicating mercy, where before he had never solicited the slightest
   favor. More than once had he been seen thus engaged by the observant
   steersman at the helm: who looked through the little glass in the cabin
   bulk-head.
   But this youth was an April man; the storm had departed; and now he
   shone in the sun, none braver than he.
   One of his jovial companions ironically advised him to enter into holy
   orders upon his arrival in New York.
   "Why so?" said the other, "have I such an orotund voice?"
   "No;" profanely returned his friend--"but you are a coward--just the man
   to be a parson, and pray."
   However this narrative of the circumstances attending the fever among
   the emigrants on the Highland may appear; and though these things
   happened so long ago; yet just such events, nevertheless, are perhaps
   taking place to-day. But the only account you obtain of such events, is
   generally contained in a newspaper paragraph, under the shipping-head.
   There is the obituary of the destitute dead, who die on the sea. They
   die, like the billows that break on the shore, and no more are heard or
   seen. But in the events, thus merely initialized in the catalogue of
   passing occurrences, and but glanced at by the readers of news, who are
   more taken up with paragraphs of fuller flavor; what a world of Me and
   death, what a world of humanity and its woes, lies shrunk into a
   three-worded sentence!
   You see no plague-ship driving through a stormy sea; you hear no groans
   of despair; you see no corpses thrown over the bulwarks; you mark not
   the wringing hands and torn hair of widows and orphans:--all is a blank.
   And one of these blanks I have but filled up, in recounting the details
   of the Highlander's calamity.
   Besides that natural tendency, which hurries into oblivion the last woes
   of the poor; other causes combine to suppress the detailed circumstances
   of disasters like these. Such things, if widely known, operate
   unfavorably to the ship, and make her a bad name; and to avoid detention
   at quarantine, a captain will state the case in the most palliating
   light, and strive to hush it up, as much as he can.
   In no better place than this, perhaps, can a few words be said,
   concerning emigrant ships in general.
   Let us waive that agitated national topic, as to whether such multitudes
   of foreign poor should be landed on our American shores; let us waive
   it, with the one only thought, that if they can get here, they have
   God's right to come; though they bring all Ireland and her miseries with
   them. For the whole world is the patrimony of the whole world; there is
   no telling who does not own a stone in the Great Wall of China. But we
   waive all this; and will only consider, how best the emigrants can come
   hither, since come they do, and come they must and will.
   Of late, a law has been passed in Congress, restricting ships to a
   certain number of emigrants, according to a certain rate. If this law
   were enforced, much good might be done; and so also might much good be
   done, were the English law likewise enforced, concerning the fixed
   supply of food for every emigrant embarking from Liverpool. But it is
   hardly to be believed, that either of these laws is observed.
   But in all respects, no legislation, even nominally, reaches the hard
   lot of the emigrant. What ordinance makes it obligatory upon the captain
   of a ship, to supply the steerage-passengers with decent lodgings, and
   give them light and air in that foul den, where they are immured, during
   a long voyage across the Atlantic? What ordinance necessitates him to
   place the galley, or steerage-passengers' stove, in a dry place of
   shelter, where the emigrants can do their cooking during a storm, or wet
   weather? What ordinance obliges him to give them more room on deck, and
   let them have an occasional run fore and aft?--There is no law concerning
   these things. And if there was, who but some Howard in office would see
   it enforced? and how seldom is there a Howard in office!
   We talk of the Turks, and abhor the cannibals; but may not some of them,
   go to heaven, before some of us? We may have civilized bodies and yet
   barbarous souls. We are blind to the real sights of this world; deaf to
   its voice; and dead to its death. And not till we know, that one grief
   outweighs ten thousand joys, will we become what Christianity is
   striving to make us.
   LIX. THE LAST END OF JACKSON
