   
   "Off Cape Cod!" said the steward, coming forward from the quarter-deck,
   where the captain had just been taking his noon observation; sweeping
   the vast horizon with his quadrant, like a dandy circumnavigating the
   dress-circle of an amphitheater with his glass.
   "Off Cape Cod!"
   and in the shore-bloom that came to us--even from that desert of
   sand-hillocks--methought I could almost distinguish the fragrance of the
   rose-bush my sisters and I had planted, in our far inland garden at
   home. Delicious odors are those of our mother Earth; which like a
   flower-pot set with a thousand shrubs, greets the eager voyager from
   afar.
   The breeze was stiff, and so drove us along that we turned over two
   broad, blue furrows from our bows, as we plowed the watery prairie. By
   night it was a reef-topsail-breeze; but so impatient was the captain to
   make his port before a shift of wind overtook us, that even yet we
   carried a main-topgallant-sail, though the light mast sprung like a
   switch.
   In the second dog-watch, however, the breeze became such, that at last
   the order was given to douse the top-gallant-sail, and clap a reef into
   all three top-sails.
   While the men were settling away the halyards on deck, and before they
   had begun to haul out the reef-tackles, to the surprise of several,
   Jackson came up from the forecastle, and, for the first time in four
   weeks or more, took hold of a rope.
   Like most seamen, who during the greater part of a voyage, have been off
   duty from sickness, he was, perhaps, desirous, just previous to entering
   port, of reminding the captain of his existence, and also that he
   expected his wages; but, alas! his wages proved the wages of sin.
   At no time could he better signalize his disposition to work, than upon
   an occasion like the present; which generally attracts every soul on
   deck, from the captain to the child in the steerage.
   His aspect was damp and death-like; the blue hollows of his eyes were
   like vaults full of snakes; and issuing so unexpectedly from his dark
   tomb in the forecastle, he looked like a man raised from the dead.
   Before the sailors had made fast the reef-tackle, Jackson was tottering
   up the rigging; thus getting the start of them, and securing his place
   at the extreme weather-end of the topsail-yard--which in reefing is
   accounted the post of honor. For it was one of the characteristics of
   this man, that though when on duty he would shy away from mere dull work
   in a calm, yet in tempest-time he always claimed the van, and would
   yield it to none; and this, perhaps, was one cause of his unbounded
   dominion over the men.
   Soon, we were all strung along the main-topsail-yard; the ship rearing
   and plunging under us, like a runaway steed; each man gripping his
   reef-point, and sideways leaning, dragging the sail over toward Jackson,
   whose business it was to confine the reef corner to the yard.
   His hat and shoes were off; and he rode the yard-arm end, leaning
   backward to the gale, and pulling at the earing-rope, like a bridle. At
   all times, this is a moment of frantic exertion with sailors, whose
   spirits seem then to partake of the commotion of the elements, as they
   hang in the gale, between heaven and earth; and then it is, too, that
   they are the most profane.
   "Haul out to windward!" coughed Jackson, with a blasphemous cry, and he
   threw himself back with a violent strain upon the bridle in his hand.
   But the wild words were hardly out of his mouth, when his hands dropped
   to his side, and the bellying sail was spattered with a torrent of blood
   from his lungs.
   As the man next him stretched out his arm to save, Jackson fell headlong
   from the yard, and with a long seethe, plunged like a diver into the
   sea.
   It was when the ship had rolled to windward, which, with the long
   projection of the yard-arm over the side, made him strike far out upon
   the water. His fall was seen by the whole upward-gazing crowd on deck,
   some of whom were spotted with the blood that trickled from the sail,
   while they raised a spontaneous cry, so shrill and wild, that a blind
   man might have known something deadly had happened.
   Clutching our reef-points, we hung over the stick, and gazed down to the
   one white, bubbling spot, which had closed over the head of our
   shipmate; but the next minute it was brewed into the common yeast of the
   waves, and Jackson never arose. We waited a few minutes, expecting an
   order to descend, haul back the fore-yard, and man the boat; but instead
   of that, the next sound that greeted us was, "Bear a hand, and reef
   away, men!" from the mate.
   Indeed, upon reflection, it would have been idle to attempt to save
   Jackson; for besides that he must have been dead, ere he struck the
   sea--and if he had not been dead then, the first immersion must have
   driven his soul from his lacerated lungs--our jolly-boat would have
   taken full fifteen minutes to launch into the waves.
   And here it should be said, that the thoughtless security in which too
   many sea-captains indulge, would, in case of some sudden disaster
   befalling the Highlander, have let us all drop into our graves.
   Like most merchant ships, we had but two boats: the longboat and the
   jolly-boat. The long boat, by far the largest and stoutest of the two,
   was permanently bolted down to the deck, by iron bars attached to its
   sides. It was almost as much of a fixture as the vessel's keel. It was
   filled with pigs, fowls, firewood, and coals. Over this the jolly-boat
   was capsized without a thole-pin in the gunwales; its bottom bleaching
   and cracking in the sun.
   Judge, then, what promise of salvation for us, had we shipwrecked; yet
   in this state, one merchant ship out of three, keeps its boats. To be
   sure, no vessel full of emigrants, by any possible precautions, could in
   case of a fatal disaster at sea, hope to save the tenth part of the
   souls on board; yet provision should certainly be made for a handful of
   survivors, to carry home the tidings of her loss; for even in the worst
   of the calamities that befell patient Job, some one at least of his
   servants escaped to report it.
