   
   In a way that I never could fully account for, the sailors, in my
   hearing at least, and Harry's, never made the slightest allusion to the
   departed Jackson. One and all they seemed tacitly to unite in hushing up
   his memory among them. Whether it was, that the severity of the bondage
   under which this man held every one of them, did really corrode in their
   secret hearts, that they thought to repress the recollection of a thing
   so degrading, I can not determine; but certain it was, that his death
   was their deliverance; which they celebrated by an elevation of spirits,
   unknown before. Doubtless, this was to be in part imputed, however, to
   their now drawing near to their port.
   LX. HOME AT LAST
   Next day was Sunday; and the mid-day sun shone upon a glassy sea.
   After the uproar of the breeze and the gale, this profound, pervading
   calm seemed suited to the tranquil spirit of a day, which, in godly
   towns, makes quiet vistas of the most tumultuous thoroughfares.
   The ship lay gently rolling in the soft, subdued ocean swell; while all
   around were faint white spots; and nearer to, broad, milky patches,
   betokening the vicinity of scores of ships, all bound to one common
   port, and tranced in one common calm. Here the long, devious wakes from
   Europe, Africa, India, and Peru converged to a line, which braided them
   all in one.
   Full before us quivered and danced, in the noon-day heat and mid-air,
   the green heights of New Jersey; and by an optical delusion, the blue
   sea seemed to flow under them.
   The sailors whistled and whistled for a wind; the impatient cabin-
   passengers were arrayed in their best; and the emigrants clustered
   around the bows, with eyes intent upon the long-sought land.
   But leaning over, in a reverie, against the side, my Carlo gazed down
   into the calm, violet sea, as if it were an eye that answered his own;
   and turning to Harry, said, "This America's skies must be down in the
   sea; for, looking down in this water, I behold what, in Italy, we also
   behold overhead. Ah! after all, I find my Italy somewhere, wherever I
   go. I even found it in rainy Liverpool."
   Presently, up came a dainty breeze, wafting to us a white wing from the
   shore--the pilot-boat! Soon a monkey-jacket mounted the side, and was
   beset by the captain and cabin people for news. And out of bottomless
   pockets came bundles of newspapers, which were eagerly caught by the
   throng.
   The captain now abdicated in the pilot's favor, who proved to be a tiger
   of a fellow, keeping us hard at work, pulling and hauling the braces,
   and trimming the ship, to catch the least cat's-paw of wind.
   When, among sea-worn people, a strange man from shore suddenly stands
   among them, with the smell of the land in his beard, it conveys a
   realization of the vicinity of the green grass, that not even the
   distant sight of the shore itself can transcend.
   The steerage was now as a bedlam; trunks and chests were locked and tied
   round with ropes; and a general washing and rinsing of faces and hands
   was beheld. While this was going on, forth came an order from the
   quarter-deck, for every bed, blanket, bolster, and bundle of straw in
   the steerage to be committed to the deep.--A command that was received by
   the emigrants with dismay, and then with wrath. But they were assured,
   that this was indispensable to the getting rid of an otherwise long
   detention of some weeks at the quarantine. They therefore reluctantly
   complied; and overboard went pallet and pillow. Following them, went old
   pots and pans, bottles and baskets. So, all around, the sea was strewn
   with stuffed bed-ticks, that limberly floated on the waves--couches for
   all mermaids who were not fastidious. Numberless things of this sort,
   tossed overboard from emigrant ships nearing the harbor of New York,
   drift in through the Narrows, and are deposited on the shores of Staten
   Island; along whose eastern beach I have often walked, and speculated
   upon the broken jugs, torn pillows, and dilapidated baskets at my feet.
   A second order was now passed for the emigrants to muster their forces,
   and give the steerage a final, thorough cleaning with sand and water.
   And to this they were incited by the same warning which had induced them
   to make an offering to Neptune of their bedding. The place was then
   fumigated, and dried with pans of coals from the galley; so that by
   evening, no stranger would have imagined, from her appearance, that the
   Highlander had made otherwise than a tidy and prosperous voyage. Thus,
   some sea-captains take good heed that benevolent citizens shall not get
   a glimpse of the true condition of the steerage while at sea.
   That night it again fell calm; but next morning, though the wind was
   somewhat against us, we set sail for the Narrows; and making short
   tacks, at last ran through, almost bringing our jib-boom over one of the
   forts.
   An early shower had refreshed the woods and fields, that glowed with a
   glorious green; and to our salted lungs, the land breeze was spiced with
   aromas. The steerage passengers almost neighed with delight, like horses
   brought back to spring pastures; and every eye and ear in the Highlander
   was full of the glad sights and sounds of the shore.
   No more did we think of the gale and the plague; nor turn our eyes
   upward to the stains of blood, still visible on the topsail, whence
   Jackson had fallen; but we fixed our gaze on the orchards and meads, and
   like thirsty men, drank in all their dew.
