   
   On the Staten Island side, a white staff displayed a pale yellow flag,
   denoting the habitation of the quarantine officer; for as if to
   symbolize the yellow fever itself, and strike a panic and premonition of
   the black vomit into every beholder, all quarantines all over the world,
   taint the air with the streamings of their f ever-flag.
   But though the long rows of white-washed hospitals on the hill side were
   now in plain sight, and though scores of ships were here lying at
   anchor, yet no boat came off to us; and to our surprise and delight, on
   we sailed, past a spot which every one had dreaded. How it was that they
   thus let us pass without boarding us, we never could learn.
   Now rose the city from out the bay, and one by one, her spires pierced
   the blue; while thick and more thick, ships, brigs, schooners, and sail
   boats, thronged around. We saw the Hartz Forest of masts and black
   rigging stretching along the East River; and northward, up the stately
   old Hudson, covered with white sloop-sails like fleets of swans, we
   caught a far glimpse of the purple Palisades.
   Oh! he who has never been afar, let him once go from home, to know what
   home is. For as you draw nigh again to your old native river, he seems
   to pour through you with all his tides, and in your enthusiasm, you
   swear to build altars like mile-stones, along both his sacred banks.
   Like the Czar of all the Russias, and Siberia to boot, Captain Riga,
   telescope in hand, stood on the poop, pointing out to the passengers,
   Governor's Island, Castle Garden, and the Battery.
   "And that" said he, pointing out a vast black hull which, like a shark,
   showed tiers of teeth, "that, ladies, is a line-of-battle-ship, the
   North Carolina."
   "Oh, dear!"--and "Oh my!"--ejaculated the ladies, and--"Lord, save us,"
   responded an old gentleman, who was a member of the Peace Society.
   Hurra! hurra! and ten thousand times hurra! down goes our old anchor,
   fathoms down into the free and independent Yankee mud, one handful of
   which was now worth a broad manor in England.
   The Whitehall boats were around us, and soon, our cabin passengers were
   all off, gay as crickets, and bound for a late dinner at the Astor
   House; where, no doubt, they fired off a salute of champagne corks in
   honor of their own arrival. Only a very few of the steerage passengers,
   however, could afford to pay the high price the watermen demanded for
   carrying them ashore; so most of them remained with us till morning. But
   nothing could restrain our Italian boy, Carlo, who, promising the
   watermen to pay them with his music, was triumphantly rowed ashore,
   seated in the stern of the boat, his organ before him, and something
   like "Hail Columbia!" his tune. We gave him three rapturous cheers, and
   we never saw Carlo again.
   Harry and I passed the greater part of the night walking the deck, and
   gazing at the thousand lights of the city.
   At sunrise, we warped into a berth at the foot of Wall-street, and
   knotted our old ship, stem and stern, to the pier. But that knotting of
   her, was the unknotting of the bonds of the sailors, among whom, it is a
   maxim, that the ship once fast to the wharf, they are free. So with a
   rush and a shout, they bounded ashore, followed by the tumultuous crowd
   of emigrants, whose friends, day-laborers and housemaids, stood ready to
   embrace them.
   But in silent gratitude at the end of a voyage, almost equally
   uncongenial to both of us, and so bitter to one, Harry and I sat on a
   chest in the forecastle. And now, the ship that we had loathed, grew
   lovely in our eyes, which lingered over every familiar old timber; for
   the scene of suffering is a scene of joy when the suffering is past; and
   the silent reminiscence of hardships departed, is sweeter than the
   presence of delight.
   LXI. REDBURN AND HABBY, ARM IN ARM, IN HARBOR
   There we sat in that tarry old den, the only inhabitants of the deserted
   old ship, but the mate and the rats.
   At last, Harry went to his chest, and drawing out a few shillings,
   proposed that we should go ashore, and return with a supper, to eat in
   the forecastle. Little else that was eatable being for sale in the
   paltry shops along the wharves, we bought several pies, some doughnuts,
   and a bottle of ginger-pop, and thus supplied we made merry. For to us,
   whose very mouths were become pickled and puckered, with the continual
   flavor of briny beef, those pies and doughnuts were most delicious. And
   as for the ginger-pop, why, that ginger-pop was divine! I have
   reverenced ginger-pop ever since.
   We kept late hours that night; for, delightful certainty! placed beyond
   all doubt--like royal landsmen, we were masters of the watches of the
   night, and no starb-o-leens ahoy! would annoy us again.
