   
   "All night in! think of that, Harry, my friend!"
   "Ay, Wellingborough, it's enough to keep me awake forever, to think I
   may now sleep as long as I please."
   We turned out bright and early, and then prepared for the shore, first
   stripping to the waist, for a toilet.
   "I shall never get these confounded tar-stains out of my fingers," cried
   Harry, rubbing them hard with a bit of oakum, steeped in strong suds.
   "No! they will not come out, and I'm ruined for life. Look at my hand
   once, Wellingborough!"
   It was indeed a sad sight. Every finger nail, like mine, was dyed of a
   rich, russet hue; looking something like bits of fine tortoise shell.
   "Never mind, Harry," said I--"You know the ladies of the east steep the
   tips of their fingers in some golden dye."
   "And by Plutus," cried Harry--"I'd steep mine up to the armpits in gold;
   since you talk about that. But never mind, I'll swear I'm just from
   Persia, my boy."
   We now arrayed ourselves in our best, and sallied ashore; and, at once,
   I piloted Harry to the sign of a Turkey Cock in Fulton-street, kept by
   one Sweeny, a place famous for cheap Souchong, and capital buckwheat
   cakes.
   "Well, gentlemen, what will you have?"--said a waiter, as we seated
   ourselves at a table.
   "Gentlemen!" whispered Harry to me--"gentlemen!--hear him!--I say now,
   Redburn, they didn't talk to us that way on board the old Highlander. By
   heaven, I begin to feel my straps again:--Coffee and hot rolls," he added
   aloud, crossing his legs like a lord, "and fellow--come back--bring us a
   venison-steak."
   "Haven't got it, gentlemen."
   "Ham and eggs," suggested I, whose mouth was watering at the
   recollection of that particular dish, which I had tasted at the sign of
   the Turkey Cock before. So ham and eggs it was; and royal coffee, and
   imperial toast.
   But the butter!
   "Harry, did you ever taste such butter as this before?"
   "Don't say a word,"--said Harry, spreading his tenth slice of toast "I'm
   going to turn dairyman, and keep within the blessed savor of butter, so
   long as I live."
   We made a breakfast, never to be forgotten; paid our bill with a
   flourish, and sallied into the street, like two goodly galleons of gold,
   bound from Acapulco to Old Spain.
   "Now," said Harry, "lead on; and let's see something of these United
   States of yours. I'm ready to pace from Maine to Florida; ford the Great
   Lakes; and jump the River Ohio, if it comes in the way. Here, take my
   arm;--lead on."
   Such was the miraculous change, that had now come over him. It reminded
   me of his manner, when we had started for London, from the sign of the
   Golden Anchor, in Liverpool.
   He was, indeed, in most wonderful spirits; at which I could not help
   marveling; considering the cavity in his pockets; and that he was a
   stranger in the land.
   By noon he had selected his boarding-house, a private establishment,
   where they did not charge much for their board, and where the landlady's
   butcher's bill was not very large.
