   
   Here, at last, I left him to get his chest from the ship; while I turned
   up town to see my old friend Mr. Jones, and learn what had happened
   during my absence.
   With one hand, Mr. Jones shook mine most cordially; and with the other,
   gave me some letters, which I eagerly devoured. Their purport compelled
   my departure homeward; and I at once sought out Harry to inform him.
   Strange, but even the few hours' absence which had intervened; during
   which, Harry had been left to himself, to stare at strange streets, and
   strange faces, had wrought a marked change in his countenance. He was a
   creature of the suddenest impulses. Left to himself, the strange streets
   seemed now to have reminded him of his friendless condition; and I found
   him with a very sad eye; and his right hand groping in his pocket.
   "Where am I going to dine, this day week?"--he slowly said. "What's to be
   done, Wellingborough?"
   And when I told him that the next afternoon I must leave him; he looked
   downhearted enough. But I cheered him as well as I could; though needing
   a little cheering myself; even though I had got home again. But no more
   about that.
   Now, there was a young man of my acquaintance in the city, much my
   senior, by the name of Goodwell; and a good natured fellow he was; who
   had of late been engaged as a clerk in a large forwarding house in
   South-street; and it occurred to me, that he was just the man to
   befriend Harry, and procure him a place. So I mentioned the thing to my
   comrade; and we called upon Goodwell.
   I saw that he was impressed by the handsome exterior of my friend; and
   in private, making known the case, he faithfully promised to do his best
   for him; though the times, he said, were quite dull.
   That evening, Goodwell, Harry, and I, perambulated the streets, three
   abreast:--Goodwell spending his money freely at the oyster-saloons; Harry
   full of allusions to the London Clubhouses: and myself contributing a
   small quota to the general entertainment.
   Next morning, we proceeded to business.
   Now, I did not expect to draw much of a salary from the ship; so as to
   retire for life on the profits of my first voyage; but nevertheless, I
   thought that a dollar or two might be coming. For dollars are valuable
   things; and should not be overlooked, when they are owing. Therefore, as
   the second morning after our arrival, had been set apart for paying off
   the crew, Harry and I made our appearance on ship-board, with the rest.
   We were told to enter the cabin; and once again I found myself, after an
   interval of four months, and more, surrounded by its mahogany and maple.
   Seated in a sumptuous arm-chair, behind a lustrous, inlaid desk, sat
   Captain Riga, arrayed in his City Hotel suit, looking magisterial as the
   Lord High Admiral of England. Hat in hand, the sailors stood
   deferentially in a semicircle before him, while the captain held the
   ship-papers in his hand, and one by one called their names; and in
   mellow bank notes--beautiful sight!--paid them their wages.
   Most of them had less than ten, a few twenty, and two, thirty dollars
   coming to them; while the old cook, whose piety proved profitable in
   restraining him from the expensive excesses of most seafaring men, and
   who had taken no pay in advance, had the goodly round sum of seventy
   dollars as his due.
   Seven ten dollar bills! each of which, as I calculated at the time, was
   worth precisely one hundred dimes, which were equal to one thousand
   cents, which were again subdivisible into fractions. So that he now
   stepped into a fortune of seventy thousand American "mitts." Only
   seventy dollars, after all; but then, it has always seemed to me, that
   stating amounts in sounding fractional sums, conveys a much fuller
   notion of their magnitude, than by disguising their immensity in such
   aggregations of value, as doubloons, sovereigns, and dollars. Who would
   not rather be worth 125,000 francs in Paris, than only £5000 in London,
   though the intrinsic value of the two sums, in round numbers, is pretty
   much the same.
   With a scrape of the foot, and such a bow as only a negro can make, the
   old cook marched off with his fortune; and I have no doubt at once
   invested it in a grand, underground oyster-cellar.
   The other sailors, after counting their cash very carefully, and seeing
   all was right, and not a bank-note was dog-eared, in which case they
   would have demanded another: for they are not to be taken in and
   cheated, your sailors, and they know their rights, too; at least, when
   they are at liberty, after the voyage is concluded:--the sailors also
   salaamed, and withdrew, leaving Harry and me face to face with the
   Paymaster-general of the Forces.
   We stood awhile, looking as polite as possible, and expecting every
   moment to hear our names called, but not a word did we hear; while the
   captain, throwing aside his accounts, lighted a very fragrant cigar,
   took up the morning paper--I think it was the Herald--threw his leg over
   one arm of the chair, and plunged into the latest intelligence from all
   parts of the world.
   I looked at Harry, and he looked at me; and then we both looked at this
   incomprehensible captain.
   At last Harry hemmed, and I scraped my foot to increase the disturbance.
   The Paymaster-general looked up.
   "Well, where do you come from? Who are you, pray? and what do you want?
   Steward, show these young gentlemen out."
