   
   "I want my money," said Harry.
   "My wages are due," said I.
   The captain laughed. Oh! he was exceedingly merry; and taking a long
   inspiration of smoke, removed his cigar, and sat sideways looking at us,
   letting the vapor slowly wriggle and spiralize out of his mouth.
   "Upon my soul, young gentlemen, you astonish me. Are your names down in
   the City Directory? have you any letters of introduction, young
   gentlemen?"
   "Captain Riga!" cried Harry, enraged at his impudence--"I tell you what
   it is, Captain Riga; this won't do--where's the rhino?"
   "Captain Riga," added I, "do you not remember, that about four months
   ago, my friend Mr. Jones and myself had an interview with you in this
   very cabin; when it was agreed that I was to go out in your ship, and
   receive three dollars per month for my services? Well, Captain Riga, I
   have gone out with you, and returned; and now, sir, I'll thank you for
   my pay."
   "Ah, yes, I remember," said the captain. "Mr. Jones! Ha! ha! I remember
   Mr. Jones: a very gentlemanly gentleman; and stop--you, too, are the son
   of a wealthy French importer; and--let me think--was not your great-uncle
   a barber?"
   "No!" thundered I.
   "Well, well, young gentleman, really I beg your pardon. Steward, chairs
   for the young gentlemen--be seated, young gentlemen. And now, let me
   see," turning over his accounts--"Hum, hum!--yes, here it is:
   Wellingborough Redburn, at three dollars a month. Say four months,
   that's twelve dollars; less three dollars advanced in Liverpool--that
   makes it nine dollars; less three hammers and two scrapers lost
   overboard--that brings it to four dollars and a quarter. I owe you four
   dollars and a quarter, I believe, young gentleman?"
   "So it seems, sir," said I, with staring eyes.
   "And now let me see what you owe me, and then well be able to square the
   yards, Monsieur Redburn."
   Owe him! thought I--what do I owe him but a grudge, but I concealed my
   resentment; and presently he said, "By running away from the ship in
   Liverpool, you forfeited your wages, which amount to twelve dollars; and
   as there has been advanced to you, in money, hammers, and scrapers,
   seven dollars and seventy-five cents, you are therefore indebted to me
   in precisely that sum. Now, young gentleman, I'll thank you for the
   money;" and he extended his open palm across the desk.
   "Shall I pitch into him?" whispered Harry.
   I was thunderstruck at this most unforeseen announcement of the state of
   my account with Captain Riga; and I began to understand why it was that
   he had till now ignored my absence from the ship, when Harry and I were
   in London. But a single minute's consideration showed that I could not
   help myself; so, telling him that he was at liberty to begin his suit,
   for I was a bankrupt, and could not pay him, I turned to go.
   Now, here was this man actually turning a poor lad adrift without a
   copper, after he had been slaving aboard his ship for more than four
   mortal months. But Captain Riga was a bachelor of expensive habits, and
   had run up large wine bills at the City Hotel. He could not afford to be
   munificent. Peace to his dinners.
   "Mr. Bolton, I believe," said the captain, now blandly bowing toward
   Harry. "Mr. Bolton, you also shipped for three dollars per month: and
   you had one month's advance in Liverpool; and from dock to dock we have
   been about a month and a half; so I owe you just one dollar and a half,
   Mr. Bolton; and here it is;" handing him six two-shilling pieces.
   "And this," said Harry, throwing himself into a tragical attitude, "this
   is the reward of my long and faithful services!"
   Then, disdainfully flinging the silver on the desk, he exclaimed,
   "There, Captain Riga, you may keep your tin! It has been in your purse,
   and it would give me the itch to retain it. Good morning, sir."
   "Good morning, young gentlemen; pray, call again," said the captain,
   coolly bagging the coins. His politeness, while in port, was invincible.
   Quitting the cabin, I remonstrated with Harry upon his recklessness in
   disdaining his wages, small though they were; I begged to remind him of
   his situation; and hinted that every penny he could get might prove
   precious to him. But he only cried Pshaw! and that was the last of it.
