   
   Going forward, we found the sailors congregated on the forecastle-deck,
   engaged in some earnest discussion; while several carts on the wharf,
   loaded with their chests, were just in the act of driving off, destined
   for the boarding-houses uptown. By the looks of our shipmates, I saw
   very plainly that they must have some mischief under weigh; and so it
   turned out.
   Now, though Captain Riga had not been guilty of any particular outrage
   against the sailors; yet, by a thousand small meannesses--such as
   indirectly causing their allowance of bread and beef to be diminished,
   without betraying any appearance of having any inclination that way, and
   without speaking to the sailors on the subject--by this, and kindred
   actions, I say, he had contracted the cordial dislike of the whole
   ship's company; and long since they had bestowed upon him a name
   unmentionably expressive of their contempt.
   The voyage was now concluded; and it appeared that the subject being
   debated by the assembly on the forecastle was, how best they might give
   a united and valedictory expression of the sentiments they entertained
   toward their late lord and master. Some emphatic symbol of those
   sentiments was desired; some unmistakable token, which should forcibly
   impress Captain Riga with the justest possible notion of their feelings.
   It was like a meeting of the members of some mercantile company, upon
   the eve of a prosperous dissolution of the concern; when the
   subordinates, actuated by the purest gratitude toward their president,
   or chief, proceed to vote him a silver pitcher, in token of their
   respect. It was something like this, I repeat--but with a material
   difference, as will be seen.
   At last, the precise manner in which the thing should be done being
   agreed upon, Blunt, the "Irish cockney," was deputed to summon the
   captain. He knocked at the cabin-door, and politely requested the
   steward to inform Captain Riga, that some gentlemen were on the
   pier-head, earnestly seeking him; whereupon he joined his comrades.
   In a few moments the captain sallied from the cabin, and found the
   gentlemen alluded to, strung along the top of the bulwarks, on the side
   next to the wharf. Upon his appearance, the row suddenly wheeled about,
   presenting their backs; and making a motion, which was a polite salute
   to every thing before them, but an abominable insult to all who happened
   to be in their rear, they gave three cheers, and at one bound, cleared
   the ship.
   True to his imperturbable politeness while in port, Captain Riga only
   lifted his hat, smiled very blandly, and slowly returned into his cabin.
   Wishing to see the last movements of this remarkable crew, who were so
   clever ashore and so craven afloat, Harry and I followed them along the
   wharf, till they stopped at a sailor retreat, poetically denominated
   "The Flashes." And here they all came to anchor before the bar; and the
   landlord, a lantern-jawed landlord, bestirred himself behind it, among
   his villainous old bottles and decanters. He well knew, from their
   looks, that his customers were "flush," and would spend their money
   freely, as, indeed, is the case with most seamen, recently paid off.
   It was a touching scene.
   "Well, maties," said one of them, at last--"I spose we shan't see each
   other again:--come, let's splice the main-brace all round, and drink to
   the last voyage!"
   Upon this, the landlord danced down his glasses, on the bar, uncorked
   his decanters, and deferentially pushed them over toward the sailors, as
   much as to say--"Honorable gentlemen, it is not for me to allowance your
   liquor;--help yourselves, your honors."
   And so they did; each glass a bumper; and standing in a row, tossed them
   all off; shook hands all round, three times three; and then disappeared
   in couples, through the several doorways; for "The Flashes" was on a
   corner.
   If to every one, life be made up of farewells and greetings, and a
   "Good-by, God bless you," is heard for every "How d'ye do, welcome, my
   boy"--then, of all men, sailors shake the most hands, and wave the most
   hats. They are here and then they are there; ever shifting themselves,
   they shift among the shifting: and like rootless sea-weed, are tossed to
   and fro.
   As, after shaking our hands, our shipmates departed, Harry and I stood
   on the corner awhile, till we saw the last man disappear.
   "They are gone," said I.
   "Thank heaven!" said Harry.
   LXII. THE LAST THAT WAS EVER HEARD OF HARRY BOLTON
