   
   That same afternoon, I took my comrade down to the Battery; and we sat
   on one of the benches, under the summer shade of the trees.
   It was a quiet, beautiful scene; full of promenading ladies and
   gentlemen; and through the foliage, so fresh and bright, we looked out
   over the bay, varied with glancing ships; and then, we looked down to
   our boots; and thought what a fine world it would be, if we only had a
   little money to enjoy it. But that's the everlasting rub--oh, who can
   cure an empty pocket?
   "I have no doubt, Goodwell will take care of you, Harry," said I, "he's
   a fine, good-hearted fellow; and will do his best for you, I know."
   "No doubt of it," said Harry, looking hopeless.
   "And I need not tell you, Harry, how sorry I am to leave you so soon."
   "And I am sorry enough myself," said Harry, looking very sincere.
   "But I will be soon back again, I doubt not," said I.
   "Perhaps so," said Harry, shaking his head. "How far is it off?"
   "Only a hundred and eighty miles," said I.
   "A hundred and eighty miles!" said Harry, drawing the words out like an
   endless ribbon. "Why, I couldn't walk that in a month."
   "Now, my dear friend," said I, "take my advice, and while I am gone,
   keep up a stout heart; never despair, and all will be well."
   But notwithstanding all I could say to encourage him, Harry felt so bad,
   that nothing would do, but a rush to a neighboring bar, where we both
   gulped down a glass of ginger-pop; after which we felt better.
   He accompanied me to the steamboat, that was to carry me homeward; he
   stuck close to my side, till she was about to put off; then, standing on
   the wharf, he shook me by the hand, till we almost counteracted the play
   of the paddles; and at last, with a mutual jerk at the arm-pits, we
   parted. I never saw Harry again.
   I pass over the reception I met with at home; how I plunged into
   embraces, long and loving:--I pass over this; and will conclude my first
   voyage by relating all I know of what overtook Harry Bolton.
   Circumstances beyond my control, detained me at home for several weeks;
   during which, I wrote to my friend, without receiving an answer.
   I then wrote to young Goodwell, who returned me the following letter,
   now spread before me.
   "Dear Redburn--Your poor friend, Harry, I can not find any where. After
   you left, he called upon me several times, and we walked out together;
   and my interest in him increased every day. But you don't know how dull
   are the times here, and what multitudes of young men, well qualified,
   are seeking employment in counting-houses. I did my best; but could not
   get Harry a place. However, I cheered him. But he grew more and more
   melancholy, and at last told me, that he had sold all his clothes but
   those on his back to pay his board. I offered to loan him a few dollars,
   but he would not receive them. I called upon him two or three times
   after this, but he was not in; at last, his landlady told me that he had
   permanently left her house the very day before. Upon my questioning her
   closely, as to where he had gone, she answered, that she did not know,
   but from certain hints that had dropped from our poor friend, she feared
   he had gone on a whaling voyage. I at once went to the offices in
   South-street, where men are shipped for the Nantucket whalers, and made
   inquiries among them; but without success. And this, I am heartily
   grieved to say, is all I know of our friend. I can not believe that his
   melancholy could bring him to the insanity of throwing himself away in a
   whaler; and I still think, that he must be somewhere in the city. You
   must come down yourself, and help me seek him out."
   This! letter gave me a dreadful shock. Remembering our adventure in
   London, and his conduct there; remembering how liable he was to yield to
   the most sudden, crazy, and contrary impulses; and that, as a
   friendless, penniless foreigner in New York, he must have had the most
   terrible incitements to committing violence upon himself; I shuddered to
   think, that even now, while I thought of him, he might no more be
   living. So strong was this impression at the time, that I quickly
   glanced over the papers to see if there were any accounts of suicides,
   or drowned persons floating in the harbor of New York.
   I now made all the haste I could to the seaport, but though I sought him
   all over, no tidings whatever could be heard.
