
HIGGINS. I don't want to, Eliza. Do you?
LIZA. Not me. I don't want never to see him again, I don't. He's
a disgrace to me, he is, collecting dust, instead of working at
his trade.
PICKERING. What is his trade, Eliza?
LIZA. Talking money out of other people's pockets into his own.
His proper trade's a navvy; and he works at it sometimes too--for
exercise--and earns good money at it. Ain't you going to call me
Miss Doolittle any more?
PICKERING. I beg your pardon, Miss Doolittle. It was a slip of
the tongue.
LIZA. Oh, I don't mind; only it sounded so genteel. I should just
like to take a taxi to the corner of Tottenham Court Road and get
out there and tell it to wait for me, just to put the girls in
their place a bit. I wouldn't speak to them, you know.
PICKERING. Better wait til we get you something really
fashionable.
HIGGINS. Besides, you shouldn't cut your old friends now that you
have risen in the world. That's what we call snobbery.
LIZA. You don't call the like of them my friends now, I should
hope. They've took it out of me often enough with their ridicule
when they had the chance; and now I mean to get a bit of my own
back. But if I'm to have fashionable clothes, I'll wait. I should
like to have some. Mrs. Pearce says you're going to give me some
to wear in bed at night different to what I wear in the daytime;
but it do seem a waste of money when you could get something to
show. Besides, I never could fancy changing into cold things on a
winter night.
MRS. PEARCE [coming back] Now, Eliza. The new things have come
for you to try on.
LIZA. Ah--ow--oo--ooh! [She rushes out].
MRS. PEARCE [following her] Oh, don't rush about like that, girl
[She shuts the door behind her].
HIGGINS. Pickering: we have taken on a stiff job.
PICKERING [with conviction] Higgins: we have.
ACT III
It is Mrs. Higgins's at-home day. Nobody has yet arrived. Her
drawing-room, in a flat on Chelsea embankment, has three windows
looking on the river; and the ceiling is not so lofty as it would
be in an older house of the same pretension. The windows are
open, giving access to a balcony with flowers in pots. If you
stand with your face to the windows, you have the fireplace on
your left and the door in the right-hand wall close to the corner
nearest the windows.
Mrs. Higgins was brought up on Morris and Burne Jones; and her
room, which is very unlike her son's room in Wimpole Street, is
not crowded with furniture and little tables and nicknacks. In
the middle of the room there is a big ottoman; and this, with the
carpet, the Morris wall-papers, and the Morris chintz window
curtains and brocade covers of the ottoman and its cushions,
supply all the ornament, and are much too handsome to be hidden
by odds and ends of useless things. A few good oil-paintings from
the exhibitions in the Grosvenor Gallery thirty years ago (the
Burne Jones, not the Whistler side of them) are on the walls. The
only landscape is a Cecil Lawson on the scale of a Rubens. There
is a portrait of Mrs. Higgins as she was when she defied fashion
in her youth in one of the beautiful Rossettian costumes which,
when caricatured by people who did not understand, led to the
absurdities of popular estheticism in the eighteen-seventies.
In the corner diagonally opposite the door Mrs. Higgins, now over
sixty and long past taking the trouble to dress out of the
fashion, sits writing at an elegantly simple writing-table with a
bell button within reach of her hand. There is a Chippendale
chair further back in the room between her and the window nearest
her side. At the other side of the room, further forward, is an
Elizabethan chair roughly carved in the taste of Inigo Jones. On
the same side a piano in a decorated case. The corner between the
fireplace and the window is occupied by a divan cushioned in
Morris chintz.
It is between four and five in the afternoon.
The door is opened violently; and Higgins enters with his hat on.
MRS. HIGGINS [dismayed] Henry [scolding him]! What are you doing
here to-day? It is my at home day: you promised not to come. [As
he bends to kiss her, she takes his hat off, and presents it to
him].
HIGGINS. Oh bother! [He throws the hat down on the table].
