
MRS. HIGGINS [quieting Henry with a touch] Colonel Pickering:
will you tell me what is the exact state of things in Wimpole
Street?
PICKERING [cheerfully: as if this completely changed the subject]
Well, I have come to live there with Henry. We work together at
my Indian Dialects; and we think it more convenient--
MRS. HIGGINS. Quite so. I know all about that: it's an excellent
arrangement. But where does this girl live?
HIGGINS. With us, of course. Where would she live?
MRS. HIGGINS. But on what terms? Is she a servant? If not, what
is she?
PICKERING [slowly] I think I know what you mean, Mrs. Higgins.
HIGGINS. Well, dash me if I do! I've had to work at the girl
every day for months to get her to her present pitch. Besides,
she's useful. She knows where my things are, and remembers my
appointments and so forth.
MRS. HIGGINS. How does your housekeeper get on with her?
HIGGINS. Mrs. Pearce? Oh, she's jolly glad to get so much taken
off her hands; for before Eliza came, she had to have to find
things and remind me of my appointments. But she's got some silly
bee in her bonnet about Eliza. She keeps saying "You don't think,
sir": doesn't she, Pick?
PICKERING. Yes: that's the formula. "You don't think, sir."
That's the end of every conversation about Eliza.
HIGGINS. As if I ever stop thinking about the girl and her
confounded vowels and consonants. I'm worn out, thinking about
her, and watching her lips and her teeth and her tongue, not to
mention her soul, which is the quaintest of the lot.
MRS. HIGGINS. You certainly are a pretty pair of babies, playing
with your live doll.
HIGGINS. Playing! The hardest job I ever tackled: make no mistake
about that, mother. But you have no idea how frightfully
interesting it is to take a human being and change her into a
quite different human being by creating a new speech for her.
It's filling up the deepest gulf that separates class from class
and soul from soul.
PICKERING [drawing his chair closer to Mrs. Higgins and bending
over to her eagerly] Yes: it's enormously interesting. I assure
you, Mrs. Higgins, we take Eliza very seriously. Every week--
every day almost--there is some new change. [Closer again] We
keep records of every stage--dozens of gramophone disks and
photographs--
HIGGINS [assailing her at the other ear] Yes, by George: it's the
most absorbing experiment I ever tackled. She regularly fills our
lives up; doesn't she, Pick?
PICKERING. We're always talking Eliza.
HIGGINS. Teaching Eliza.
PICKERING. Dressing Eliza.
MRS. HIGGINS. What!
HIGGINS. Inventing new Elizas.
Higgins and Pickering, speaking together:
HIGGINS.    You know, she has the most extraordinary quickness of
            ear:
PICKERING.  I assure you, my dear Mrs. Higgins, that girl
HIGGINS.    just like a parrot. I've tried her with every
PICKERING.  is a genius. She can play the piano quite
            beautifully
HIGGINS.    possible sort of sound that a human being can make--
PICKERING.  We have taken her to classical concerts and to music
HIGGINS.    Continental dialects, African dialects, Hottentot
PICKERING.  halls; and it's all the same to her: she plays
            everything
HIGGINS.    clicks, things it took me years to get hold of; and
PICKERING.  she hears right off when she comes home, whether it's
HIGGINS.    she picks them up like a shot, right away, as if she
            had
PICKERING.  Beethoven and Brahms or Lehar and Lionel Morickton;
HIGGINS.    been at it all her life.
PICKERING.  though six months ago, she'd never as much as touched
            a piano.
MRS. HIGGINS [putting her fingers in her ears, as they are by
this time shouting one another down with an intolerable noise]
Sh--sh--sh--sh! [They stop].
PICKERING. I beg your pardon. [He draws his chair back
apologetically].
HIGGINS. Sorry. When Pickering starts shouting nobody can get a
word in edgeways.
