
HIGGINS. I am behaving myself perfectly.
PICKERING. He is doing his best, Mrs. Higgins.
A pause. Higgins throws back his head; stretches out his legs;
and begins to whistle.
MRS. HIGGINS. Henry, dearest, you don't look at all nice in that
attitude.
HIGGINS [pulling himself together] I was not trying to look nice,
mother.
MRS. HIGGINS. It doesn't matter, dear. I only wanted to make you
speak.
HIGGINS. Why?
MRS. HIGGINS. Because you can't speak and whistle at the same
time.
Higgins groans. Another very trying pause.
HIGGINS [springing up, out of patience] Where the devil is that
girl? Are we to wait here all day?
Eliza enters, sunny, self-possessed, and giving a staggeringly
convincing exhibition of ease of manner. She carries a little
work-basket, and is very much at home. Pickering is too much
taken aback to rise.
LIZA. How do you do, Professor Higgins? Are you quite well?
HIGGINS [choking] Am I-- [He can say no more].
LIZA. But of course you are: you are never ill. So glad to see
you again, Colonel Pickering. [He rises hastily; and they shake
hands]. Quite chilly this morning, isn't it? [She sits down on
his left. He sits beside her].
HIGGINS. Don't you dare try this game on me. I taught it to you;
and it doesn't take me in. Get up and come home; and don't be a
fool.
Eliza takes a piece of needlework from her basket, and begins to
stitch at it, without taking the least notice of this outburst.
MRS. HIGGINS. Very nicely put, indeed, Henry. No woman could
resist such an invitation.
HIGGINS. You let her alone, mother. Let her speak for herself.
You will jolly soon see whether she has an idea that I haven't
put into her head or a word that I haven't put into her mouth. I
tell you I have created this thing out of the squashed cabbage
leaves of Covent Garden; and now she pretends to play the fine
lady with me.
MRS. HIGGINS [placidly] Yes, dear; but you'll sit down, won't
you?
Higgins sits down again, savagely.
LIZA [to Pickering, taking no apparent notice of Higgins, and
working away deftly] Will you drop me altogether now that the
experiment is over, Colonel Pickering?
PICKERING. Oh don't. You mustn't think of it as an experiment. It
shocks me, somehow.
LIZA. Oh, I'm only a squashed cabbage leaf.
PICKERING [impulsively] No.
LIZA [continuing quietly]--but I owe so much to you that I should
be very unhappy if you forgot me.
