
   "I never was a soldier, therefore never could
desert," said the pedlar, resting his face on his
hand in a melancholy attitude.
   "Why, desertion consists of more than quitting
your colours, though that is certainly the worst
kind," continued the dragoon, speaking slowly,
and with some emphasis -- "A man may desert his
country in the hour of her utmost need."
   Birch buried his face in both his hands, and his
whole frame shook with violent agitation; the
sergeant regarded him closely, but good feelings
soon got the better of his antipathies, and he
continued more mildly -- 
   "But still that is a sin which I think may be
forgiven if sincerely repented of; and it matters
but little when or how a man dies, so that he dies
like a christian and a man. -- I recommend you to
say your prayers, and then get some rest, in order
that you may do both. There is no hope of your
being pardoned, as Colonel Singleton has sent
down the most positive orders to take your life
whenever we met you. No -- no -- nothing can
save you."
   "You say the truth," cried Birch. "It is now

-
too late -- I have destroyed my only safeguard.
But He will do my memory justice at least."
   "What safeguard?" asked the sergeant, with
awakened curiosity.
   "'Tis nothing," replied the pedlar, recovering
his natural manner, and lowering his face to
avoid the earnest looks of his companion.
   "And who is he?"
   "No one," added Harvey, evidently anxious to
say no more.
   "Nothing and no one, can avail but little now,"
said the sergeant, rising to go; "lay yourself on
the blanket of Mrs. Flannagan, and get a little
sleep -- I will call you betimes in the morning,
and from the bottom of my soul, I wish I could be
of some service to you, for I dislike greatly to see
a man hung up like a dog."
   "Then you might save me from this ignomi-
nious death," said Birch, springing on his feet, and
catching the dragoon by the arm -- "And, oh!
what will I not give you in reward."
   "In what manner?" asked the sergeant, look-
ing at him in surprise.
   "See," said the pedlar, producing several gui-
neas from his person; "these are but as nothing
to what I will give you, if you will assist me to
escape."
   "Was you the man whose picture is on the
gold, I would not listen to such a crime," said
the trooper, throwing the money on the floor with
cool contempt. "Go -- go -- poor wretch, and
make your peace with God; for it is he only that
can be of service to you now."
   The sergeant took up the lantern, and, with
some indignation in his manner, left the pedlar to
his sorrowful meditations on his approaching fate.
Birch sunk in momentary despair on the pallet of
Betty, while his guardian proceeded to give the

-
necessary instructions to the sentinels for his safe
keeping.
   "Suffer no one to speak to your prisoner, and
your life will depend on his not escaping," Hol-
lister concluded his injunctions with, to the man
in the shed.
   "But," said the trooper, "my orders are, to let
the washerwoman pass in and out, as she pleases."
   "Well let her then, but be careful that this
wily pedlar does not get out in the folds of her
petticoats." He then continued his walk, giving
similar orders to all of the sentinels near the
spot.
   For some time after the departure of the ser-
geant, silence prevailed within the solitary prison
of the pedlar, until the dragoon at his door heard
his loud breathings, which soon rose into the re-
gular cadence of one in a deep sleep; and the
man continued walking his post, musing on the in-
difference to life which could allow nature its
customary rest, even on the threshold of the
grave. Harvey Birch had, however, been too
long a name held in detestation by every man in
the corps, to suffer any feelings of commiseration
to mingle with these reflections of the sentinel,
and notwithstanding the consideration and kind-
ness manifested by the sergeant, there was not
probably another man of his rank in the whole
party who would have discovered equal benevo-
lence to the prisoner, or who would not have imi-
tated the veteran in rejecting the bribe, although
probably from a less worthy motive. There was
something of disappointed vengeance in the feel-
ings of the man who watched the door of the
room, on finding his prisoner enjoying a sleep that
he himself was deprived of, and at his exhibiting
such obvious indifference to the utmost penalty
that military rigor could inflict on all his treason

-
to the cause of liberty and America. More than
once he felt prompted to disturb this unwont-
ed repose of the pedlar by taunts and revilings,
but the discipline he was under, and a secret
sense of shame at its brutality, held him in sub-
jection.
   His meditations were, however, soon interrupt-
ed by the appearance of the washerwoman, who
came staggering through the door that communi-
cated with the kitchen, muttering execrations
against the servants of the officers who, by their
waggery, had disturbed her slumbers before the
fire. The sentinel understood enough of her male-
dictions to comprehend the case, but all his efforts
to enter into conversation with the enraged wo-
man were useless, and he suffered her to enter
her room without explaining that it contained
another inmate. The noise of her huge frame
falling on the bed, was succeeded by a silence that
was soon interrupted by the renewed breathing
of the pedlar, and within a few minutes Harvey
continued to breathe aloud as if no interruption
had occurred. The relief arriving at this mo-
ment, the fellow who felt excessively nettled at
the contempt of the pedlar, after communicating
his orders, exclaimed to the other as he returned to
the guard-room -- 
   "You may keep yourself warm by dancing,
John; the pedlar-spy has tuned his fiddle you
hear, and it will not be long before Betty will
strike up in her turn."
   The joke was followed by a general laugh from
the party, who marched on in the performance of
their duty. At this instant the door of the prison
was opened, and Betty re-appeared, staggering
back again towards her former quarters.
   "Stop," said the sentinel, catching her by her

-
clothes; "are you sure the Spy is not in your
pocket?"
   "Can't you hear the rascal snoring in my room,
you dirty blackguard," sputtered Betty, her whole
frame shaking with the violence of her rage,
"and is it so you would sarve a dacent famale
that a man must be put to sleep in the room with
her, you rapscallion."
   "Pooh! what do you mind a man who's to
be hung in the morning for; you see he sleeps
already; to-morrow he'll take a longer nap."
   "Hands off, you villain," cried the washer-
woman, relinquishing a small bottle that the fel-
low had succeeded in wresting from her. "But
I'll go to Captain Jack, and know if it's his orders
to put a hang-gallows spy in my room, ay even in
my widow'd bed, you thief."
   "Silence, you old Jezebel," said the fellow
with a laugh, taking the bottle from his mouth
to breathe, "or you will wake the gentleman -- 
would you disturb a man in his last sleep?"
   "I'll awake Captain Jack, you riprobate vil-
lain, and bring him here to see me righted -- he
will punish you all for imposing on a dacent
widow'd body, you marauder."
   With these words, which only extorted a laugh
from the sentinel, Betty staggered round the end
of the building, and made the best of her way to-
wards the quarters of her favourite, Captain John
Lawton, for redress. Neither the officer nor the
woman, however, appeared during the night, both
being differently employed, and nothing further
occurred to disturb the repose of the pedlar, who,
to the astonishment of the sentinel, continued ap-
parently, by his breathing, to manifest how little
the gallows could affect his slumbers.
