

-
Chapter 2
CHAPTER II.
"A Daniel come to judgment! yea, a Daniel! -- 
O wise young judge, how do I honor thee!" 
Merchant of Venice. 
    
   The Skinners followed Captain Lawton with
alacrity towards the quarters occupied by the
troop of that gentleman. The captain of dra-
goons had on all occasions manifested so much
zeal for the cause in which he was engaged -- was
so regardless of personal danger when opposed to
the enemy, and his stature and stern countenance
contributed so much to render him terrific at such
moments, that they had, in some measure, pro-
cured him a reputation distinct from the corps in
which he served. -- His intrepidity was mistaken
for ferocity, and his hasty zeal for the natural love
of cruelty. On the other hand, a few acts of cle-
mency, or more properly speaking, of discrimi-
nating justice, had with one portion of the com-
munity acquired for Dunwoodie the character of
undue forbearance. -- It is seldom that either
popular condemnation or applause falls where it
is merited.
   While in the presence of the Major, the leader
of the gang had felt himself under that restraint
which vice must ever experience in the company
of acknowledged virtue, but having left the house,
he at once conceived that he was under the protec-
tion of a congenial spirit. There was a gravity in
the manner of Lawton, that deceived most of those
who did not know him intimately, and it was a
common saying in his troop, that "when the cap-
tain laughed he was sure to punish." Drawing

-
near his conductor, therefore, the leader com-
menced, with inward satisfaction, the following
dialogue -- 
   "'Tis always well for a man to know his friends
from his enemies."
   To this prefatory observation, the captain made
no other than an assenting sound, that could not
be called a word.
   "I suppose Major Dunwoodie has the good opi-
nion of Washington?" continued the Skinner in
a low, confidential tone, that rather expressed a
doubt than asked a question.
   "There are some who think so," returned the
captain ambiguously.
   "Many of the friends of Congress in this coun-
ty," the man proceeded, "wish the horse was led
by some other officer -- for my part if I could only
be covered by a troop now and then, I could do
many an important piece of service to the cause,
that this capture of the pedlar would be nothing
to."
   "Indeed!" said the captain, drawing familiarly
nigh him and lowering his voice, "such as what?"
   "For the matter of that -- it could be made as
profitable to the officer, as it would be to us who
did it," said the Skinner, with a look of the most
significant meaning.
   "But how?" asked Lawton, a little impatient-
ly, and quickening his step to get out of the hear-
ing of the rest of the party.
   "Why near hand to the Royal lines, even un-
der the very guns of the heights, might be good
picking if we had a force to guard us from De
Lancey's men, and to cover our retreat from
being cut off by the way of King's-Bridge."
   "I thought the refugees took all that game to
themselves," said the captain.
   "They do a little at it, but are obliged to be

-
sparing among their own people," returned the
fellow in perfect confidence. "I have been down
twice under an agreement with them: the first
time they acted with honour -- but the second they
came upon us and drove us off, and took the
plunder to themselves."
   "That was a very dishonourable act indeed,"
said Lawton; "I wonder that you associate with
such rascals."
   "It is necessary to have an understanding with
some of them, or we might be taken," returned
the Skinner. "But a man without honour, is
worse than a brute -- do you think Major Dun-
woodie is a man to be trusted?"
   "You mean on honourable principles," said
Lawton.
   "Certain -- you know Arnold was thought well
of, until the Royal Major was taken."
   "Why I do not believe Dunwoodie would sell
his command as Arnold wished to," said the cap-
tain; "neither do I think him exactly trust-worthy
in a delicate business like yours."
   "That's just my notion," rejoined the Skinner,
with a self-approving manner that showed how
much he was satisfied with his own estimate of
character.
   By this time they had arrived at a better sort of
farm house, the very extensive out-buildings of
which were in tolerable repair for the times.
The barns were occupied by the men of the
troop in their clothes, while their horses were
arranged under the long sheds which protected
the yard from the cold north wind, and were qui-
etly eating, with their saddles on their backs, and
bridles thrown on their necks, ready to be bitted
at the shortest warning. Lawton excused him-
self for a moment to the Skinner and entered his
quarters. He soon returned holding in his hand

-
one of the common lanterns used by the men
when working on their steeds, and led the way
towards the large orchard that surrounded the
buildings on three sides. The gang followed the
leader in silence, who suspected the object to be the
facility of communicating further on this interest-
ing topic without the danger of being overheard.
   Approaching the captain, he renewed the dis-
course with a view of establishing further confi-
dence, and giving his companion a more favoura-
ble opinion of his intellects.
   "Do you think the colonies will finally get the
better of the King?" he inquired with a little of
the importance of a politician.
   "Get the better!" echoed the captain, with
impetuosity -- then checking himself, he conti-
nued, "no doubt they will -- if the French will
give us arms and money; we can drive the Royal
troops out in six months."
   "Well so I hope we will soon," said the Skin-
ner hastily, being conscious of his having medita-
ted joining the refugees for some time, "and then
we shall have a free government, and we, who
fight for it, will get our reward."
