

-
somewhat softened the indignation of the surgeon,
and he replied with rather less hauteur -- 
   "You should speak with reverence of the
usages of those who have gone before us, and
who, however ignorant they were in matters of
science, and particularly that of surgery, yet fur-
nished many brilliant exceptions to the supersti-
tions of the day. Now, sir, I have no doubt that
Galen has operated on wounds occasioned by
these very scythes that you mention, although we
can find no evidence of the fact in cotemporary
writers. Ah! they must have given dreadful in-
juries, and I doubt not, caused great uneasiness to
the medical gentlemen of that day."
   "There could not have been much science dis-
played, I think," returned the trooper, col-
lecting himself into his usual manner; "and
occasionally a body must have been left in two
pieces, to puzzle the ingenuity of those gentry to
unite. Yet doubtless they did it."
   "What!" cried the operator in amazement,
"unite two parts of the human body that have
been severed by an edged instrument, to any of
the purposes of animal life?"
   "That have been rent asunder by a scythe, and
united to do military duty," said Lawton.
   "'Tis impossible -- quite impossible," cried the
surgeon; "it is in vain, Captain Lawton, that
human ingenuity endeavours to baffle the efforts
of nature. Think, my dear sir, in this case you
separate all the arteries -- injure all of the intes-
tines -- sever all of the nerves and sinews, and,
what is of more consequence, you" -- 
   "Enough," said Lawton, waving his hand;
"you have said enough, Dr. Sitgreaves, and I am
convinced. Nothing shall ever tempt me wil-
lingly to submit to be divided in this irretrievable

-
manner -- a manner, I say, Dr. Sitgreaves, that
puts at defiance all the arts of surgery."
   "True -- most true, my dear John," cried the
surgeon with warmth, and forgetting his displea-
sure; "it removes all the pleasure of a wound,
when you find it beyond the reach of science to
heal."
   "I should think so," said Lawton, rather drily.
   "What do you think is the greatest pleasure in
life?" asked the operator suddenly, and with all
his confidence in his companion restored.
   "That may be difficult to answer."
   "Not at all," cried the surgeon; "it is in wit-
nessing, or rather feeling, the ravages of disease
repaired by the lights of science co-operating with
nature. I once broke my little finger intention-
ally, in order that I might reduce the fracture
and watch the cure; it was only on a small scale,
you know, dear John; still I think the thrilling sen-
sation, excited by the knitting of the bone, aided
by the contemplation of the art of man thus act-
ing in unison with nature, exceeded any other en-
joyment that I have ever experienced. Oh! had
it been one of the more important members, such
as the leg or arm, how much greater must the
pleasure have been."
   "Or the neck," said the trooper; but their dis-
course was interrupted by their arrival at the cot-
tage of Mr. Wharton. No one appearing to usher
them into an apartment, the captain proceeded to
the door of the parlour, where he knew visitors
were commonly shown. On opening it, he paused
for a moment, in admiration, at the scene within.
The person of Col. Wellmere first met his eye,
bending forward towards the figure of the blush-
ing Sarah, with an earnestness of manner, that
prevented the noise of Lawton's entrance being
heard by either of the parties. Certain signifi-

-
cant signs, which were embraced at a glance by
the prying gaze of the trooper, at once made him
a master of their secret, and he was about to re-
tire as silently as he had advanced, when his com-
panion, pushing himself through the passage,
abruptly entered the apartment. Advancing in-
stantly to the chair of Wellmere, the surgeon in-
stinctively laid hold of his arm and exclaimed -- 
   "Bless me -- a quick and irregular pulse -- 
flushed cheek and fiery eye -- strong febrile symp-
toms, and such as must be attended to." While
speaking, the doctor, who was much addicted to
practising in a summary way, had already pro-
duced his lancet, and made certain other indica-
tions of his intentions to proceed at once to busi-
ness. But Col. Wellmere, recovering from the
confusion of the surprise, arose from his seat,
rather haughtily, and said -- 
   "Sir, it is the warmth of the room, that lends
me the colour, and I am already too much in-
debted to your skill to give you any farther trou-
ble -- Miss Wharton knows that I am quite well,
and I do assure you that I never felt better or
happier in my life."
   There was a peculiar emphasis in the latter
part of this speech, that, however it might gratify
the feelings of Sarah, brought the colour to her
cheeks with a redoubled brilliancy, and Sitgreaves,
as his eye followed the direction of those of his
patient, did not fail to observe it.
   "Your arm, if you please, madam," said the
surgeon promptly, advancing with a bow; "anxiety
and watching have done their work on your deli-
cate frame, and there are symptoms about you
that must not be neglected."
   "Excuse me, sir," said Sarah, recovering her-
self with womanly pride, "the heat is oppressive,

-
and I will retire and acquaint Miss Peyton with
your presence."
   There was but little difficulty in practising on
the abstracted simplicity of the surgeon; but
it was necessary for Sarah to raise her eyes to re-
turn the salutation of Lawton, as he bowed his
head to nearly a level with the hand that held
open the door for her passage. One look was
sufficient; she was able to control her steps suffi-
ciently to retire with dignity, but no sooner was
she relieved from the presence of all observers,
than she fell into a chair and abandoned herself
to a mingled feeling of shame and pleasure.
   A little nettled at the contumacious deportment
of the British colonel, Sitgreaves, after once more
tendering services that were again rejected, with-
drew to the chamber of young Singleton whither
Lawton had already preceded him.

-
Chapter 5
CHAPTER V.
"Oh! Henry, when thou delgn'st to sue, 
     Can I thy sult withstand? 
When thou, lov'd youth, bast won my heart, 
     Can I refuse my hand?" 
Hermit of Warkworth. 
    
