
   The graduate of Edinburgh found his patient
rapidly improving in health, and entirely free
from fever. His sister, with a cheek that was, if
possible, paler than on her arrival, watched around
his couch with vigilant care, and the ladies of the
cottage had not, in the midst of their sorrows and
varied emotions, forgotten to discharge the duties
of hospitality. Frances felt herself impelled to-
wards their disconsolate guest, with an interest
for which she could not account, and with a force
that she could not control. The maid had un-
consciously connected the fates of Dunwoodie and
Isabella in her imagination, and felt, with all the
romantic ardour of a generous mind, that she
was serving her former lover most, by exhibiting
kindness to her he loved best. Isabella received
her attentions with a kind of vacant gratitude, but
neither of them indulged in any allusion to the
latent source of their uneasiness. The observation
of Miss Peyton seldom penetrated beyond things
that were visible, and to her the situation of Henry
Wharton seemed to furnish an awful excuse for
the fading cheeks and tearful eyes of her niece.
If Sarah manifested less of care than her sister,
still the unpractised spinster was not at a loss to
comprehend the reason. Love is a species of
holy feeling with the virtuous of the female sex,

-
and seems to hallow all that comes within its in-
fluence. Although Miss Peyton mourned with
sincerity over the danger which threatened her
nephew, still she indulged her eldest niece, with
motherly kindness, in the enjoyment that chance
had given her early attachment. War she well
knew was a dreadful enemy to love, and the mo-
ments that were thus granted to his votaries were
not to be thrown away.
   Several days now passed without any interruption
to the usual vocations of the inhabitants of the cot-
tage, or the party at the "four corners." The for-
mer were supporting their fortitude with the cer-
tainty of Henry's innocence, and a strong reliance
on Dunwoodie's exertions in his behalf, and the lat-
ter waiting with coolness the intelligence that was
hourly expected of a conflict, and their orders to
depart. Captain Lawton, however, waited for
both these events in vain. Letters from his ma-
jor announced that the enemy, finding the party
which was to co-operate with them, had been
defeated and was withdrawn, had retired also
behind the works of Fort Washington, where they
continued inactive, but threatening momentarily
to strike a blow in revenge for their disgrace.
The trooper was enjoined to vigilance, and the
letter concluded with a compliment to his honour,
zeal, and undoubted bravery.
   "Extremely flattering, Major Dunwoodie,"
muttered the dragoon as he threw down this epis-
tle, and stalked across the floor of his room to
quiet his impatience. "A proper guard have
you selected for this service -- let me see -- I have
to watch over the interests of a crazy, irresolute
old man, who does not know whether he belongs to
us or to the enemy. Four women; three of whom
are well enough in themselves, but who are not
immensely flattered by my society, and the fourth

-
who, good as she is, is on the wrong side of forty -- 
some two or three blacks -- a talkative house-
keeper that does nothing but chatter about gold
and despisables, and signs and omens -- and poor
George Singleton -- Ah! well a comrade in suffer-
ing has a claim on a man, next to his honour in the
field, and an engagement with his mistress -- so
I'll make the best of it."
   As he concluded this soliloquy, the trooper took
a seat and began to whistle to convince himself
how little he cared about the matter, when, by
throwing his booted leg carelessly round, he upset
the canteen that held his present stock of brandy.
The accident was soon repaired, but in replacing
the wooden vessel, he observed a billet lying on
the bench, on which the liquor had been placed.
It was soon opened and he read -- "the moon will
not rise till after midnight -- a fit time for deeds
of darkness." There was no mistaking the hand;
it was clearly the same that had given him the
timely warning against assassination, and the
trooper continued, for a long time, musing on the
nature of these two notices, and the motives that
could induce the mysterious pedlar to favour an
implacable enemy in the manner that he latterly
had done. That he was a spy of the enemy Law-
ton knew, for the fact of his conveying intelli-
gence to the English commander-in-chief of a
party of Americans that were exposed to the ene-
my, was proved most clearly against him on the
trial for his life. The consequences of his trea-
son had been avoided, it is true, by a lucky order
from Washington, which withdrew the regiment
a short time before the British appeared to cut it
off, but still the crime was the same; perhaps,
thought the partisan, he wishes to make a friend
of me, against the event of another capture; but,
at all events, he spared my life on one occasion,

-
and saved it on another. I will endeavour to be
as generous as himself, and pray that my duty
may never interfere with my feelings. Whether
the danger, intimated in the present note, threat-
ened the cottage or his own party, the captain was
uncertain, but he inclined to the latter opinion,
and determined to beware how he rode abroad
in the dark. To a man in a peaceable country,
and in times of quiet and order, the indifference
with which the partisan regarded the impending
danger, would be inconceivable. His contem-
plations on the subject were more for devising
means to entrap his enemies, than to escape their
machinations. But the arrival of the surgeon,
who had been to pay his daily visit to the Locusts,
interrupted his meditations. Sitgreaves brought
an invitation from the mistress of the mansion, to
Captain Lawton, desiring that the cottage might
be honoured with his presence at an early hour
on that evening.
   "What!" cried the trooper, "then they have
received a letter also."
   "I think nothing more probable," said the ope-
rator; "there is a chaplain here from the Royal
Army, who has come out to exchange the British
wounded, and who has an order from Col. Single-
ton for their delivery. But a more mad project
than to remove them now was never adopted."
   "A priest, say you -- is he a hard drinker -- a
real camp-idler -- a fellow to breed a famine in a
regiment? -- or does he seem a man who is in
earnest in his trade?"
   "A very respectable and orderly gentleman,
not at all given to intemperance, judging from the
outward symptoms," returned the surgeon, "and
a man who really says grace in a very regular and
appropriate manner."
   "And does he stay the night?"

-
    
   "Certainly, he waits for his cartel; but hasten,
John, we have but little time to waste. I will
just step up and bleed two or three of the English-
men who are to move in the morning, in order to
prevent inflammation, and be with you imme-
diately."
   The gala suit of Captain Lawton was easily ad-
justed to his huge frame, and his companion being
ready, they once more took their route towards
the cottage. Roanoke had been as much bene-
fited by a few days rest as his master, and Law-
ton ardently wished, as he curbed his gallant
steed, on passing the well-remembered rocks,
that his treacherous enemy stood before him
mounted and armed as himself. But no enemy,
nor any disturbance whatever interfered with
their progress, and they reached the Locusts just
as the sun was throwing his setting rays on the
valley, and tinging the tops of the leafless trees
with the colour of gold. It never required more
than a single look, to acquaint the trooper with
the particulars of every scene that was not un-
commonly veiled, and the first survey that he
took on entering the house, told him more than
the observations of a day had put into the posses-
sion of Dr. Sitgreaves. Miss Peyton accosted
him with a smiling welcome that exceeded
the bounds of ordinary courtesy, and evidently
flowed more from feelings that were connected
with the heart than from manner. Frances glided
about, tearful, and agitated, while Mr. Wharton
stood ready to receive them, decked in a suit of
velvet, that would have been conspicuous in the
gayest drawing-rooms on the continent. Col.
Wellmere was in the uniform of an officer
of the household troops of his prince, and Isa-
bella Singleton sat in the parlour, clad in the
habiliments of joy, but with a countenance that

-
belied her appearance, while her brother by her
side, looked with a cheek of flitting colour, and
an eye of intense interest, like any thing but an
invalid. As it was the third day that he had left
his room, Dr. Sitgreaves, who began to stare about
him in stupid wonder, forgot to reprove his pa-
tient for his imprudence. Into this scene, Cap-
tain Lawton moved with all the composure and
gravity of a man whose nerves were not easily
discomposed by novelties. His compliments were
received as graciously as they were offered, and
after exchanging a few words with the different
individuals in the room, he approached to where
the surgeon had withdrawn in a kind of confused
astonishment to rally his senses to the occasion.
   "John," whispered the surgeon, with awaken-
ed curiosity, "what do you think?"
   "That your wig and my black head would look
the better for a little of Betty Flannagan's best
flour; but it is too late now, and we must fight
the battle armed as you see -- why, Archibald, you
and I look like militiamen flanked by those holiday
Frenchmen who have come among us."
   "Observe," said Sitgreaves, in increasing won-
der, "here comes the army chaplain in his full
robes as a Doctor Divinitatis -- what can it mean?"
   "An exchange," said the trooper; "the wound-
ed of Cupid are to meet and settle their accounts
with the god, in the way of plighting their faith to
suffer from his archery no more."
