
   "Oh!" ejaculated the operator, laying his
finger on the side of his nose, and for the first
time comprehending the case.
   "Yes -- oh!" muttered Lawton, in imitation -- 
when turning suddenly to his comrade, he said
fiercely, but in an under tone, "Is it not a crying
shame, that a sunshine-hero, and an enemy, should

-
thus be suffered to steal away one of the fairest
plants that grows in our soil -- a flower fit to be
placed in the bosom of any man."
   "You speak the truth, John; and if he be not
more accomodating as a husband, than as a patient,
I fear me that the lady will lead a troubled life."
   "Let her," said the trooper indignantly; "she
has chosen from her country's enemies, and may
she meet with a foreigner's virtues in her choice."
   Their further conversation was interrupted by
Miss Peyton, who, advancing, acquainted them that
they had been invited to grace the nuptials of her
eldest niece and Col. Wellmere. The gentlemen
bowed in silence at this explanation of what they
already understood, and the good spinster, with
an inherent love of propriety, went on to add,
that the acquaintance was of an old date, and the
attachment by no means a sudden thing. To this
Lawton merely bowed, but the surgeon, who loved
to hold converse with the virgin, replied -- 
   "That the human mind was differently consti-
tuted in different individuals. In some, impres-
sions are vivid and transitory; in others, more
deep and lasting: -- indeed, there are some philo-
sophers who pretend to trace a connexion between
the physical and mental powers of the animal;
but for my part, madam, I believe that the one is
much influenced by habit and association, and the
other subject to the laws of science."
   Miss Peyton, in her turn, bowed her silent as-
sent to this remark, and retired with dignity, to
usher the intended bride into the presence of the
company. The hour had arrived when American
custom has decreed, that the vows of wedlock
must be exchanged; and Sarah, blushing with a
variety of emotions, followed her aunt to the with-
drawing room. Wellmere sprang to receive the
hand that she extended towards him with an aver-

-
ted face, and, for the first time, the English Colo-
nel appeared conscious of the important part that
he was to act in the approaching ceremonies.
Hitherto his air had been abstracted, and his man-
ner uneasy; but every thing excepting the certain-
ty of his bliss, seemed to vanish at the blaze of
loveliness that burst on his sight with the presence
of his mistress. All arose from their seats, and
the reverend gentleman had already opened
the volume in his hand, when the absence of Fran-
ces was noticed: Miss Peyton again withdrew in
search of her niece, whom she found in her own
apartment, and in tears.
   "Come, my love, the ceremony waits but for
us," said the aunt, affectionately entwining her
arm in that of her niece; "endeavour to compose
yourself, that proper honour may be done to the
choice of your sister."
   "Is he -- can he be worthy of her?" cried Fran-
ces, in a burst of emotion, and throwing herself
into the arms of the spinster.
   "Can he be otherwise?" returned Miss Peyton;
"is he not a gentleman? -- a gallant soldier,
though an unfortunate one? and certainly, my
love, one who appears every way qualified to
make any woman happy."
   Frances had given vent to her feelings, and, with
an effort, she collected sufficient resolution to ven-
ture again to join the expecting party below. But
to relieve the embarrassment of this delay, the
clergyman had put sundry questions to the bride-
groom; one of which was by no means answered
to his satisfaction. Wellmere was compelled to
acknowledge that he was unprovided with a ring,
and to perform the marriage ceremony without
one, the divine pronounced to be impossible. His
appeal to Mr. Wharton for the propriety of this
decision, was answered affirmatively, as it would

-
have been negatively, had the question been put
in a manner to lead to such a result. The owner
of the Locusts had lost the little energy he
possessed, by the blow recently received through
his son, and his assent to the objection of the
clergyman, was as easily obtained, as his consent
to the premature proposals of Wellmere. In
this stage of the dilemma, Miss Peyton and Fran-
ces appeared. The surgeon of dragoons approach-
ed the former, and as he hand ed her to a chair,
observed -- 
   "It appears, Madam, that untoward circumstan-
ces have prevented Colonel Wellmere from pro-
viding all of the decorations that custom, antiqui-
ty, and the canons of the church, have prescribed
as indispensable to enter into the honourable state
of wedlock."
   Miss Peyton glanced her quiet eye at the un-
easy bridegroom, and perceiving him to be adorn-
ed with what she thought sufficient splendour, al-
lowing for the time and the suddenness of the oc-
casion, she turned her look on the speaker with a
surprise that demanded an explanation.
   The surgeon understood her wishes, and pro-
ceeded at once to gratify them.
   "There is," he observed, "an opinion preva-
lent, that the heart lies on the left side of the
body, and that the connexion between the mem-
bers of that side and what may be called the seat
of life, is more intimate than that which exists
with their opposites. But this is an error that
grows out of an ignorance of the scientific ar-
rangement of the human frame. In obedience to
this opinion, the fourth finger of the left hand is
thought to contain a virtue that belongs to no
other of its class, and is encircled, during the so-
lemnization of wedlock, with a cincture or ring, as
if to chain that affection to the marriage state,

-
which is best secured by the graces of the female
character." While speaking, the operator laid his
hand impressively on his heart, and bowed nearly
to the floor as be concluded.
   "I know not, sir, that I rightly understand your
meaning," said Miss Peyton, with dignity, but suf-
fering a slight vermilion to appear on a cheek that
had long lost that peculiar charm of youth.
   "A ring, Madam -- a ring is wanting for the
ceremony."
   The instant that the surgeon spoke explicitly,
the awkwardness of their situation was compre-
hended. She glanced her eyes at her neices, and
in the younger she read a secret exultation that
somewhat displeased her; but the countenance of
Sarah was suffused with a shame that the conside-
rate aunt well understood. Not for the world
would she violate any of the observances of fe-
male etiquette. It suggested itself to all the fe-
males of the Wharton family, at the same mo-
ment, that the wedding ring of their late mother
and sister was reposing peacefully amid the rest
of her jewellery, in a secret receptacle that had
been provided at an early day, to secure the valu-
ables against the predatory inroads of the marau-
ders who roamed through the county. Into this
hidden vault, the plate and whatever was most
prized made a nightly retreat, and there the ring
in question had long lain, forgotten until at this
moment. But it was the business of the bride-
groom, from time immemorial, to furnish this
indispensable to wedlock, and on no account
would Miss Peyton do any thing that transcended
the usual courtesies of her sex on this solemn oc-
casion; certainly not until sufficient expiation for
the offence had been made by a due portion of
trouble and disquiet. The spinster, therefore, re-
tained the secret from a regard to decorum, Sarah

-
from feeling, and Frances from both, united to dis-
satisfaction at the connexion. It was reserved for
Dr. Sitgreaves to break the embarrassment of the
party by again speaking:
   "If, Madam, a plain ring that once belonged to
a sister of my own -- " The operator paused a
moment, and hem'd once or twice; "if, Madam,
a ring of that description might be admitted to this
honour, I have one that could be easily produced
from my quarters at the "corners," and I doubt
not it would fit the finger for which it is desired.
There is a strong resemblance between -- hem -- 
between my late sister and Miss Wharton in sta-
ture and anatomical figure, and the proportions are
apt to be observed throughout the whole animal
economy."
   A glance of Miss Peyton's eye recalled Colonel
Wellmere to a sense of his duty, and springing
from his chair, he assured the surgeon, that in no
way could he impose heavier obligations on him,
than by sending for that very ring. The operator
bowed a little haughtily, and withdrew to fulfil
his promise, by despatching a messenger on the
errand. The spinster suffered him to retire;
but unwillingness to admit a stranger into the pri-
vacy of their domestic arrangements, induced her
to follow and tender the services of Cæsar instead
of Sitgreaves' man, who had been offered by Isa-
bella for this duty -- her brother, probably from bo-
dily weakness, continuing silent throughout the
whole evening. Katy Haynes was accordingly
directed to summon the black to the vacant par-
lour, and thither the spinster and surgeon repair-
ed, to give their several instructions.
