
   The consent to this sudden union of Sarah and
Wellmere, and especially at a time when the life
of a member of the family was in such imminent
jeopardy, was given from a conviction, that the

-
unsettled state of the country, would probably
prevent another opportunity for the lovers meet-
ing, and a secret dread on the part of Mr. Whar-
ton, that the death of his son, might, by hastening
his own, leave his remaining children without a
protector. But notwithstanding that Miss Peyton
had complied with her brother's wish to profit by
the accidental visit of a divine, she had not
thought it necessary to blazon the intended nup-
tials of her niece to the neighbourhood, had even
time been allowed: she thought, therefore, that
she was now communicating a profound secret to
Cæsar and her housekeeper.
   "Cæsar," she commenced with a smile, "you
are now to learn, that your young mistress, Miss
Sarah, is to be united to Colonel Wellmere this
evening."
   "No, no -- I tink I see em afore," said Cæsar,
laughing and chuckling with inward delight, as he
shook his head with conscious satisfaction at his
own prescience; "old black man tell when a
young lady talk all alone wid a gem'man in a par-
lour."
   "Really, Cæsar, I find I have never given you
credit for half the observation that you deserve,"
said the spinster gravely; "but as you already
know on what emergency your services are requir-
ed, listen to the directions of this gentleman, and
take care to observe them strictly."
   The black turned in quiet submission to the sur-
geon, who commenced as follows:
   "Cæsar, your mistress has already acquainted
you with the important event about to be solemni-
zed within this habitation; but a ring is wanting,
and by riding to the mess-house at the Four Cor-
ners, and delivering this billet to either sergeant
Hollister or Mrs. Elizabeth Flanagan, it will
speedily be placed in your possession. On its re-

-
ceipt return hither, and fail not to use diligence
in both going and returning, for my patients will
shortly require my presence in the hospital, and
Captain Singleton already suffers from the want
of rest."
   By this time the surgeon had forgotten every
thing but what appertained to his own duties, and
rather unceremoniously left the apartment. Cu-
riosity, or perhaps an opposite feeling, delica-
cy, induced Miss Peyton to glance her eye on the
open billet that Sitgreaves had delivered to the
black, where she read as follows: -- it was address-
ed to his assistant.
   "If the fever has left Kinder, give him nour-
ishment. Take three ounces more of blood from
Watson. Have a search made that the woman
Flanagan has left none of her jugs of alcohol in
the hospital; -- renew the dressings of Johnson,
and dismiss Smith to duty. Send the ring, which
is pendent from the chain of the watch that I left
with you to time the doses, by the bearer.
   "Archibald Sitgreaves, M. D.
Surgeon of Dragoons.
   Miss Peyton yielded this singular epistle to the
charge of the black, in silent wonder, and with-
drew, leaving Katy and Cæsar to arrange the de-
parture of the latter.
   "Cæsar," said Katy, with imposing solemnity,
"put the ring when you get it, in your left
pocket, that is nearest your heart; and by no
means indivour to try it on your finger, for it is
unlucky." -- 
   "Try him on a finger?" interrupted the negro,
stretching forth his bony knuckles; "tink a Miss
Sally's ring go on old Cæsar finger?"

-
    
   "'Tis not consequential whether it goes on or
not," said the housekeeper; "but it is an evil
omen to place a marriage ring on the finger of an-
other after wedlock, and of course it may be dan-
gerous before."
   "I tell you Katy," cried Cæsar, a little indig-
nantly, "I go fetch a ring, and neber tink to put
him on a finger."
   "Go -- go then, Cæsar," said Katy, suddenly
recollecting divers important items in the supper
that required her attention; "and hurry back
again, and stop not for living soul."
   With this injunction Cæsar departed, and was
soon firmly fixed in the saddle. From his youth,
the black, like all of his race, had been a hard ri-
der; but charged with a message of such import-
ance, he moved at first with becoming dignity, and
bending under the weight of sixty winters, his Af-
rican blood had lost some of its native heat. The
night was dark, and the wind whistled through
the vale with the chilling dreariness of the blasts
of November. By the time Cæsar reached the
grave-yard, that had so lately received the body
of the elder Birch, all the horrors of his situation
began to burst on the mind of the old man, and
he threw around him many a fearful glance, in
momentary expectation of seeing something su-
perhuman. There was barely light sufficient to
discern a being of earthly mould emerging into
the highway, and apparently from the graves of
the dead. It is in vain that philosophy and rea-
son contend with our fears and early impressions,
but Cæsar had neither to offer him their frail sup-
port. He was, however, well mounted on a coach-
horse of Mr. Wharton's, and clinging to the back
of the animal with instinctive skill, he aban-
doned the rein to the pleasure of the beast. Hil-
locks, woods, rocks, fences and houses flew by

-
him with the rapidity of lightning, and the black
had just began to think where and on what busi-
ness it was, that he was riding in this headlong
manner, when he reached the place where the
two roads met, and the "Hotel Flanagan"
stood in all its dilapidated simplicity. The sight
of a cheerful fire through its windows, first gave
Cæsar a pledge that he had reached the habita-
tion of man, and with it came all his dread of the
bloody Virginians; -- his duty must, however, be
done, and dismounting, he fastened the foaming
animal to a fence, and approached the window
with cautious steps, to listen and reconnoitre.
   Before a blazing fire sat sergeant Hollister and
Betty Flanagan, enjoying themselves over a libe-
ral donation from the stores of the washerwoman.
   "I tell yee sargeant, dear," said Betty, remo-
ving the mug from her mouth, "'tis no reasona-
ble to think it was any thing more than the pid-
lar himself; sure now, where was the smell of sul-
phur, and the wings, and the tail, and the cloven
foot? -- besides sargeant, its no dacent to tell a
lone famale that she had Beelzeboob for a bed-
fellow."
   "It matters but little Mrs. Flanagan, provided
you escape his talons and fangs hereafter," return-
ed the veteran, following his remark by a heavy
potation.
   Cæsar heard enough to convince him, that
danger to himself from this pair was but little to
be apprehended. His teeth already began to
chatter from cold and terror, and the sight of the
comfort within, stimulated him greatly to adven-
ture to enter. He made his approaches with pro-
per caution, and knocked with extreme humility
at the door. The appearance of Hollister with a
drawn sword, roughly demanding who was with-
out, contributed in no degree to the restoration of

-
