
his faculties; but fear itself lent him power to ex-
plain his errand.
   "Advance," said the sergeant with military
promptness, and throwing a look of close scrutiny
on the black, as he brought him to the light; " ad-
vance, and deliver your despatches: -- but stop,
have you the countersign?"
   "I don't tink a know what he be," said the
black, shaking in his shoes.
   "Who ordered you on this duty did you say?"
   "A tall massa, with a spectacle," returned Cæ-
sar; "he came a doctering a Capt. Singleton."
   "'Twas Doctor Sitgreaves; he never knows the
countersign himself -- now, blackey, had it been
Captain Lawton, he would not have sent you here
close to a sentinel without the countersign; for
you might get a pistol bullet through your head,
and that would be cruel to you, for although you
be black, I am none of them who thinks niggurs
haven't no souls."
   "Sure a nagur has as much sowl as a white,"
said Betty; "come hither, ould man, and warm
that shivering carcass of yeers by the blaze of this
fire. I'm sure a Guinea nagur loves heat as much
as a souldier loves his drop."
   Cæsar obeyed in silence, and a mulatto boy,
who was sleeping on a bench in the room, was
bidden to convey the note of the surgeon to the
building where the wounded were quartered.
   "Here," said the washerwoman, tendering to
Cæsar a taste of the article that most delighted
herself, "try a drop, smooty, 'twill warm the
black sowl within your body, and be giving you
spirits as you are going homeward."
   "I tell you, Elizabeth," said the sergeant, "that
the souls of niggurs are the same as our own, and
how often have I heard the good Mr. Whitfield
say, that there was no distinction of colour in hea-

-
ven. Therefore it is reasonable to believe, that
the soul of this here black, is as white as my own,
or even Major Dunwoodie's."
   "Be sure he be," cried Cæsar, a little tartly,
who had received a wonderful stimulus by tasting
the drop of Mrs. Flanagan.
   "Its a good sowl that the major is, any way,"
returned the washerwoman, "and a kind sowl -- 
aye, and a brave sowl too; and you'll say all that
yeerself, sargeant, I'm thinking."
   "For the matter of that," returned the vete-
ran, "there is one above even Washington, to
judge of souls; but this I will say, that Major
Dunwoodie is a gentleman who never says, go,
boys -- but always says, come, boys; and if a poor
fellow is in want of a spur or a martingale, and
the leather-wack is gone, there is never wanting
the real silver to make up the loss, and that from
his own pocket too."
   "Why, then, are you here idle, when all that
he holds most dear are in danger," cried a voice
with startling abruptness; "mount, mount, and
follow your captain -- arm and mount, and that
instantly, or you will be too late."
   This unexpected interruption, produced an in-
stantaneous confusion amongst the tiplers. Cæsar
fled instinctively into the fire-place, where he
maintained his position in defiance of a heat that
would have roasted a white man. Sergeant Hol-
lister turned promptly on his heel, and seizing his
sabre, the steel was glittering in the fire-light, in
the twinkling of an eye; but perceiving the
intruder to be the pedlar, who stood near the
open door that led to the stoop in the rear, he
began to fall back towards the position of the
black, with a kind of military intuition which
taught him to concentrate his forces. Betty alone
stood her ground by the side of the temporary ta-

-
ble. Replenishing the mug with a large addi-
tion of the article known to the soldiery by the
name of "choke dog," she held it towards the
pedlar. The eyes of the washerwoman had for
some time been swimming with love and liquor,
and turning them good naturedly on Birch, she
cried -- 
   "Faith, but yee'r welcome, Mister Pidlar, or
Mister Birch, or Mister Beelzeboob, or what's
yee'r name. Yee'r an honest divil, any way, and
I'm hoping that you found the pittlicoats conva-
nient -- come forward, dear, and fale the fire; Ser-
geant Hollister won't be hurting you for the fear
of an ill turn you may be doing him hereafter -- 
will yee, Sargeant, dear."
   "Depart, ungodly man," cried the veteran,
edging still nearer to Cæsar, but lifting his legs
alternately as they scorched with the heat, " de-
part in peace. There is none here for thy ser-
vice, and you seek the woman in vain. There is
a tender mercy that will save her from thy talons."
The sergeant ceased to utter aloud, but the
motion of his lips continued, and a few scattering
words of prayer were alone to be heard.
   The brain of the washerwoman was in such a
state of confusion, that she did not clearly com-
prehend the meaning of her lover, but a new idea
struck her imagination, and she broke forth -- 
   "If it's me the man seeks, where's the matter,
pray -- am I not a widow'd body and my own pro-
perty? And you talk of tinderness, Sargeant,
but it's little I see of it, any way -- who knows but
Mr. Beelzeboob here is free to spake his mind -- 
I'm sure it is willing to hear that I am."
   "Woman," said the pedlar, "be silent; and
you, foolish man, mount -- arm and mount, and
flee to the rescue of your officer, if you are wor-
thy of the cause in which you serve, and would

-
not disgrace the coat that you wear." The feel-
ings of the pedlar communicated to his manner
the power of eloquence, and he vanished from the
sight of the bewildered trio, with a rapidity that
left them uncertain whither he had fled.
   Oh hearing the voice of an old friend, Cæsar
emerged from his quarters, with a skin that was
glistening with moisture, and fearlessly advanced
to where Betty stood in a maze of intellectual
confusion.
   "I wish a Harvey stop," said the black; "if he
ride down a road, I should like to go along; -- I
don't tink Johnny Birch hurt his own son."
   "Poor ignorant wretch!" exclaimed the vete-
ran, recovering his voice with a long drawn
breath; "think you that figure was of flesh and
blood?"
   "Harvey an't a berry fleshy," replied the black,
"but he berry clebber man."
   "Pooh! sargeant dear," exclaimed the wash-
erwoman, "talk rason for once, and mind what
the knowing one tells yee; call out the boys, and
ride a bit after Captain Jack, -- rimimber darling,
that he told you the day, to be in readiness to
mount at a moment's warning."
   "Ay, but not at a summons from the foul fiend.
Let but Captain Lawton, or Lieutenant Mason, or
Cornet Skipwith say the word," cried the veteran,
"and who is quicker in the saddle than I am?"
   "Well sargeant, how often is it that yee've
boasted to myself, that the corps was'nt a bit
afeard to face the divil."
   "No more be we, in battle array, and by day-
light; but it's fool hardy and irreverent to tempt
Satan, and on such a night as this; listen how the
wind whistles through the trees, and hark! there
is the howlings of evil spirits abroad."
   "I see him," said Cæsar, opening his eyes to a

-
width that might have embraced more than an
ideal form.
   "Where?" interrupted the sergeant, again in-
stinctively laying his hand on the hilt of his sabre.
   "No -- no," said the black, "I see a Johnny
Birch come out of he grave -- Johnny walk afore
he bury'd."
