
   "Ah! then he must have led an evil life in-
deed," said Hollister; "the blessed in spirit lie
quiet until the general muster at the last day, but
wickedness disturbs the soul in this life as well as
in that which is to come."
   "And what is to come of Captain Jack?" cried
Betty angrily; "is it yee'r orders that yee won't
mind, nor a warning given? I'll jist git my cart
and ride down and tell him that you are afeard of
a dead man and Beelzeboob; and it is'nt succour
he may be expicting from you? -- I wonder who'll
be the orderly of the troop the morrow then? -- his
name won't be Hollister, any way."
   "Nay, Betty, nay," said the sergeant, laying
his hand on her shoulder, "if there must be riding
to-night, let it be by him whose duty it is to call
out the men and set an example. -- The Lord have
mercy, and send us enemies of flesh and blood."
   Another glass confirmed the veteran in a reso-
lution that was only excited by a dread of his
Captain's displeasure, and he proceeded to sum-
mon the dozen men who had been left under his
command. The boy arriving with the ring,
Cæsar placed it carefully in the pocket of his
waistcoat next his heart, and mounting, shut his
eyes, seized his charger by the mane, and con-
tinued in a state of comparative insensibility, un-
til the animal stopped at the door of the warm
stable, whence he had started.

-
    
   The movements of the dragoons being timed
to the order of a march, were much slower, and
were made with a watchfulness that was intended
to guard against surprise from the evil one him-
self.

-
Chapter 6
CHAPTER VI.
"Be not your tongue thy own shame's orator; 
Look sweet, speak fair, become disloyalty; 
Apparel vice like virtue's harbinger." 
Comedy of Errors. 
    
   The situation of the party in Mr. Wharton's
dwelling, was sufficiently awkward during the
short hour of Cæsar's absence; for such was the
astonishing rapidity displayed by his courser, that
the four miles of road was gone over, and the
events we have recorded, had occurred, somewhat
within that period of time. Of course the gen-
tlemen strove to make the irksome moments fly
as swiftly as possible; but premeditated happi-
ness is certainly of the least joyous kind. The
bride and bridegroom, from a variety of reasons,
are privileged to be dull, and but few of their
friends seemed disposed, on the present occasion,
to dishonour their example. The English Colo-
nel exhibited a proper portion of uneasiness at
this unexpected interruption to his felicity, and
sat with a varying countenance by the side of Sa-
rah, who seemed to be profiting by the delay, to
gather fortitude for the solemn ceremony. In
the midst of this embarrassing silence, Dr. Sit-
greaves addressed himself to Miss Peyton, by
whose side he had contrived to procure a chair.
   "Marriage, Madam, is pronounced to be hon-
ourable in the sight of God and man; and it may
be said to be reduced in the present age to the
laws of nature and reason. The ancients, in sanc-

-
tioning polygamy, lost sight of the provisions of
nature, and condemned thousands to misery; but
with the increase of science, have grown the wise
ordinances of society, which ordain that man
should be the husband of but one woman."
   Wellmere glanced a fierce expression of dis-
gust at the surgeon, that indicated his sense of the
tediousness of the other's remarks; while the
spinster, with a slight trembling at touching on
forbidden subjects, replied with an extremely
dignified inclination of her body -- 
   "I had thought, sir, that we were indebted to
the christian religion for our morals on this sub-
ject."
   "True, Madam," replied the operator, "it is
somewhere provided in the prescriptions of the
apostles, that the sexes should henceforth be on
an equality in this respect. But in what degree
could polygamy affect holiness of life? Certainly
it was a scientific arrangement of Paul, who was
much of a scholar, and probably had frequent con-
ferences with Luke, whom we all know to have
been bred to the practice of medicine, on this
important subject."
   To this profound discussion, the spinster made
no other reply, than another bend of her body,
that would have struck an observant man dumb;
but Captain Lawton, placing the point of his
sheathed sabre on the floor, folded his hands
across the hilt, and leaning his chin thereon, threw
singular glances with his searching eyes, alter-
nately from the surgeon to the bridegroom.
   "Yet this practice still prevails," said the
trooper; "and in those very countries where it
was first abolished by the christian code. Pray,
Colonel Wellmere, in what manner is bigamy
punished in England?"

-
    
   Thus addressed, the bridegroom raised his eyes
to the countenance of the other, but they quickly
sunk again under the prying look they encounter-
ed; and an effort banished the tremor from his
lip, and restored some of the colour to his cheek,
as he replied -- 
   "Death! -- as such an offence merits."
   "Death and dissection," continued the opera-
tor; "it is seldom that the law loses sight of even-
tual utility in a malefactor. Bigamy in a man is
certainly a most heinous offence."
   "More so, think you, than celibacy?" asked
Lawton, a little archly.
   "Even so," returned the surgeon with undis-
turbed simplicity; "he who remains in a single
state, may devote his life to science and the ex-
tension of knowledge, if not of his species; but
the wretch who profits by the constitutional ten-
dency of the female sex to credulity and tender-
ness, incurs all the wickedness of a positive sin,
heightened by the baseness of deception in its ex-
ecution."
   "Really, sir, the ladies are infinitely obliged
to you, for attributing folly to them as part of their
nature."
   "Captain Lawton, in man the animal is more
nobly formed than in woman. The nerves are
endowed with less sensibility -- the whole frame is
less pliable and yielding; is it, therefore, surpri-
sing, that a tendency to rely on the faith of her
partner, is more natural to woman than to the
other sex?"
   Wellmere, unable at this moment to listen
with any degree of patience to the dialogue, sprung
from his seat, and paced the floor in disorder.
Pitying his situation, the reverend gentleman, who,
in his robes, was patiently awaiting the return of
Cæsar, changed the discourse, and a few minutes
