

-
brought the black himself. The billet was handed
to Dr. Sitgreaves; for Miss Peyton had expressly
enjoined Cæsar, not to implicate her in any man-
ner in the errand on which he was despatched.
The note contained a summary statement of the
several subjects of the surgeon's directions, and
referred him to the black for the ring; it was in-
stantly demanded, and promptly delivered. A
transient look of melancholy clouded the brow
of the operator as he stood a moment, and gazed
silently on the bauble; nor did he remember the
place or the occasion, while he soliloquized as fol-
lows:
   "Poor Anna! gay as innocence and youth could
make you, was thy heart when this cincture was
formed to grace thy nuptials; but ere the hour
had come, God had taken you to himself. Years
have passed, my sister, but never have I forgotten
the companion of my infancy;" he advanced to
Sarah, and, unconscious of observation, placing
the ring on her finger, continued, "she for whom
it was intended, has long been in her grave, and
the youth who bestowed the gift, soon followed
her sainted spirit; take it, Madam, and God grant
that it may be an instrument in making you as
happy as you deserve to be."
   Sarah felt an unaccountable chill at her heart,
as this burst of feeling escaped from the surgeon;
but Wellmere offering his hand, she was led be-
fore the divine, and the ceremony began. The
first words of this imposing office, produced a
dead stillness in the apartment; and the minister
of God proceeded to the solemn exhortation, and
witnessed the plighted troth of the parties, when
the investiture of the ring was to follow. It had
been left, from inadvertency, and the agitation of
the moment, where Sitgreaves had placed it; -- a
slight interruption was occasioned by the circum-

-
stance, and the clergyman was about to proceed,
when a figure glided into the midst of the party,
that at once put a stop to the ceremony. -- It was
the pedlar: -- his sunken and cowering eye no lon-
ger avoided the look of others, but glared wild-
ly around him, and his whole frame was agitated
by an exertion that had shaken his iron nerves.
But all these emotions passed away like shadows
from a fleeting cloud, and assuming a look of deep
humility and habitual respect, he turned to the
bridegroom, and bowing low, said -- 
   "Can Colonel Wellmere waste the precious
moments here, when his wife has crossed the
ocean to meet him? The nights are long, and
the moon bright; -- a few hours riding would take
him to the city."
   Aghast at the suddenness of this extraordinary
address, Wellmere for a moment lost the command
of his faculties. To Sarah, the countenance of
Birch, wild and agitated as it was, produced no
terror; but the instant she recovered from the
surprise of his interruption, she turned her anx-
ious gaze on the features of the man to whom she
had just pledged herself for life. They afforded the
most terrible confirmation of all that the pedlar af-
firmed; the room whirled around with her, and she
fell lifeless into the arms of her aunt. There is
an instinctive delicacy in woman, that for a time
seems to conquer all other emotions however
powerful, and through its impulse, the insensible
bride was immediately conveyed from sight by her
friends, and the parlour was deserted to the won-
dering group of men.
   The confusion of the fall of Sarah, enabled
the pedlar to retreat with a rapidity that would
have baffled pursuit, had any been attempted, and
Wellmere stood with all eyes fixed on him in
ominous silence.

-
    
   " 'Tis false -- 'tis false as hell!" he cried, strik-
ing his hand to his forehead. "I have ever denied
her claim; nor will the laws of my country com-
pel me to acknowledge it."
   "But will not conscience, and the laws of
God?" asked Lawton.
   Before Wellmere could reply, Singleton, who
had hitherto been supported by his servant, mov-
ed into the center of the circle, and with cheeks
glowing with animation, and eyes that flashed fire,
exclaimed -- 
   "Thus is it ever with your nation, proud Eng-
lishman; your boasted honour, where is it? obli-
gatory only among yourselves, -- but have a care,"
striking the hilt of his sabre, "each daughter of
America has a claim upon the protection of her
sons, and there are none so helpless, but a coun-
tryman can be found to avenge her injuries, or re-
dress her wrongs."
   " 'Tis well, sir," said Wellmere, haughtily, and
retreating towards the door -- "your situation pro-
tects you now: but a time may come -- "
   He had reached the entry, when a slight tap on
his shoulder caused him to turn his head; -- it was
Captain Lawton -- who, with a smile of peculiar
meaning, beckoned to him to follow. The state
of Wellmere's mind was such, that he would glad-
ly have gone any where to avoid the gaze of hor-
ror and detestation that glared from every eye he
met. They reached the stables before the trooper
spoke, when he cried aloud -- 
   "Bring out Roanoke."
   His man appeared with the steed caparisoned
as when ready for its master; and Lawton. coolly
throwing the bridle on the neck of the animal,
took his pistols from the holsters, and continued,
"You said truly, Colonel Wellmere, when you
pronounced George Singleton unfit for combat -- 

-
but here are weapons that have seen good
service before to-day -- ay! and in honourable
hands sir. These were the pistols of my father,
Colonel Wellmere; he used them with credit in
the wars with France, and gave them to me to
fight the battles of my country with. In what bet-
ter way can I serve her than in exterminating a
wretch who would have blasted one of her fairest
flowers?"
   "This injurious treatment shall meet with its
reward," cried the Englishman, seizing the offer-
ed weapon eagerly, "and the blood lie on the
head of him who sought it."
   "Amen!" said Lawton; but hold, a moment,
sir. You are now free, and the passports of
Washington are in your pocket; -- I give you the
re; -- if I fall, there is a steed that will outstrip
pursuit; and I would advise you to retreat without
much delay, for even Archibald Sitgreaves would
fight in such a cause -- nor will the guard above be
very apt to give quarters."
   "Are you ready?" asked Wellmere, guashing
his teeth with rage.
   "Stand forward, Tom, with the lights; -- fire!"
   Wellmere fired, and the bullion flew from the
epaulette of the trooper in fifty pieces.
   "Now then the turn is mine," said Lawton de-
liberately, and levelling his pistol.
   "And mine!" shouted a voice, as the weapon
was struck from his hand; "can you find nothing
to do but to shoot at a man, as if he was a turkey
at a Christmas match? By all the devils in hell,
'tis the mad Virginian -- fall on my boys, and take
him; this is a prize not hoped for."
   Unarmed and surprized as he was, Lawton's
presence of mind did not desert him: he felt he
was in the hands of those from whom he was to
expect no mercy; and as four of the skinners fell

-
