
upon him at once, he used his gigantic strength to
the utmost. Three of the band grasped him by
the neck and arms, with an intent to clog his ef-
forts, and pinion him with ropes. The first of these
he threw from him with a violence that sent him
against the building, where he lay for a moment
stunned with the blow. But the fourth seized
his legs, and unable to contend with such odds, the
trooper came to the earth, bringing with him both
of his assailants. The struggle on the ground was
short but terrific; -- curses, and the most dreadful
imprecations were uttered by the skinners, who
in vain called on three more of their band that
were gazing on the combat in nerveless horror, to
assist in securing their prize. A difficulty of
breathing, from one of the combatants, was heard,
accompanied by the stifled moanings of a strangled
man; and directly one of the group arose on his
feet, shaking himself from the wild grasp of the
others. Both Wellmere and the servant of Law-
ton had fled; the former to the stables, and the
latter to give the alarm -- and all was darkness.
The figure that stood erect, sprung into the sad-
dle of the unheeded charger -- sparks of fire
from the armed feet of the horse, gave light
enough to discover the trooper dashing like the
wind towards the highway.
   "By hell he's off!" cried the leader, hoarse
from rage and exhaustion; "fire! -- bring him
down -- fire, I say, or you'll be too late."
   The order was obeyed, and one moment of aw-
ful suspense followed, in the vain hope of hearing
the huge frame of Lawton tumbling from his steed.
   "He'd never fall, if you had killed him," mut-
tered one; "I've known them Virg nians sit their
horses with two and three balls through them; ay,
even after they were dead."

-
    
   A freshening of the blast, wafted the tread of a
horse down the valley, which, by its speed, gave
assurance of a rider governing its motion.
   "Them trained horses always stop when the
rider falls," observed one of the gang.
   "Then," cried the leader, striking his musket
on the ground in a rage, "the fellow is safe! -- 
to your business at once. A short half hour will
bring down that canting sergeant and the guard
upon us. 'Tis lucky if the guns don't turn them
out. Quick, to your posts, and fire the house in
the chambers -- smoking ruins are good to cover
evil deeds."
   "What is to be done with this lump of earth?"
cried another, pushing the body that yet lay insen-
sible, where the grasp of Lawton had deprived it
of animation, "a little rubbing would bring him
too."
   "Let him lie," said the leader fiercely; "had
he been half a man, that dragooning rascal would
have been in my power; -- enter the house, I say,
and fire the chambers -- we can't go amiss here; -- 
there is plate and money enough to make you all
gentlemen -- yes, and revenge too."
   The idea of silver in any way was not to be
resisted; and, leaving their companion, who be-
gan to show faint signs of life, they rushed tumul-
tuously towards the dwelling. Wellmere availed
himself of the opportunity, and stealing from the
stable with his own charger, was able to gain the
highway unnoticed. For an instant he hesitated,
whether to ride towards the point where he knew
a guard was stationed, and endeavour to rescue
the family, or, profiting by his liberty, and the ex-
change that had been effected by the divine, to
seek the royal army. Shame, and the conscious-
ness of guilt, determined him to take the latter
course, and he rode towards New-York, stung
with the reflection of his own baseness, and har-

-
rassed with the apprehension of meeting with an
enraged woman, that he had married during his
late visit to England, but whose claims, so soon as
his passion was sated, he had resolved never
willingly to admit. In the tumult and agitation of
the moment, the retreat of Lawton and Wellmere
was but little noticed, the condition of Mr.
Wharton, and the exhaustion that succeeded
the excitement of George Singleton, demanding
the care and consolation of both the surgeon
and the divine. The report of the fire-arms first
roused the family to the sense of a new danger,
and but a minute elapsed before the leader and
one more of the gang entered the room.
   "Surrender, you servants of King George,"
shouted the leader, presenting his musket to
the breast of Sitgreaves, "or I will let a little of
your tory blood from your veins."
   "Gently -- gently, my friend," said the surgeon;
"you are doubtless more expert in inflicting
wounds than in healing them; the weapon that
you hold so indiscreetly, is extremely dangerous
to animal life."
   "Yield, then, or take its contents," exclaimed
the other.
   "Why and wherefore should I yield? -- I am a
practitioner of medicine, and a non-combatant.
The articles of capitulation must be arranged with
Captain John Lawton, though yielding I believe
is not a subject on which you will find him parti-
cularly complying."
   The fellow had by this time taken such a sur-
vey of the group, as convinced him that little
danger was to be apprehended from resistance,
and eager to seize his share of the plunder, he
dropped his musket, and was soon busy in arrang-
ing divers articles of plate in bags, with the as-
sistance of one of his men, so that it would

-
be in the most convenient situation to accompany
them in their retreat. The cottage now present-
ed a most singular spectacle; -- the ladies were
gathered around Sarah, who yet continued insen-
sible in one of the rooms that had escaped the
notice of the marauders. Mr. Wharton sat in a
state of perfect imbecility, listening to, but not
profiting by, the words of comfort that fell from
the lips of the clergyman, who soon became too
much terrified with the scene to offer them. Sin-
gleton was lying on a sofa, shaking with debility,
and inattentive to surrounding objects; while the
surgeon was administering restoratives, and look-
ing at the dressings, with a coolness that mocked the
tumult. Cæsar, and the attendants of Captain
Singleton, had retreated to the wood in the rear
of the cottage, and Katy Haynes was flying about
the building, busily employed in forming a bundle
of valuables, from which, with the most scrupu-
lous honesty, she rejected every article that was
not really and truly her own.
   But to return to the party at the Four Corners.
When the veteran had got his men mounted and
under arms, a restless desire to participate in the
glory and dangers of the expedition came over
the washerwoman. Whether she was impelled to
the undertaking by a dread of remaining alone,
or a wish to hasten in person to the relief of
her favourite, we will not venture to assert;
but, as Hollister was unwillingly, giving the
orders to wheel and march, the voice of Betty
was heard exclaiming -- 
   "Stop a bit, sargeant dear, till two of the boys
git out the cart, and I'll jist ride wid yee -- 'tis like
there'll be wounded, and it will be mighty conva-
nient to bring them home in."
   Although inwardly much pleased with any cause
of delay to a service that he so little relished,

-
Hollister affected some displeasure at the deten-
tion, and replied -- -
   "Nothing but a cannon ball can take one of my
lads from his charger, and it's not very likely that
we shall have as fair fighting as cannon and mus-
ketry, in a business of the evil one's inventing; -- 
so Elizabeth, you may go if you will -- but the cart
will not be wanting."
   "Now sargeant, dear, you lie any way," said
Betty, who was somewhat unduly governed by her
potations; "and wasn't Captain Singleton shot off
his horse but tin days gone by? -- ay, and Captain
Jack himself too; and didn't he lie on the ground
face uppermost and back downwards, looking grim?
and didn't the boys tink him dead, and turn and
lave the rig'lars the day?"
   "You lie back again," cried the sergeant
fiercely, "and so does any one, who says that we
didn't gain the day."
   "For a bit or so -- only I mane for a bit or so,"
said the washerwoman; "but Major Dunwoodie
turn'd you, and so you lick'd the rig'lars. But the
Captain it was that fell, and I'm thinking that
there's no better rider going; so, sargeant, it's the
cart that will be convanient. Here, two of you,
jist hitch the mare to the tills, and it's no whiskey
that you'll be wanting the morrow; and put the
piece of Jinny's hide under the pad -- the baste is
never the better for the rough ways of the county
Westchester." The consent of the sergeant be-
ing obtained, the equipage of Mrs. Flanagan was
soon in readiness to receive its burthen.
   "As it is quite uncertain whether we shall be
attacked in front or rear," said Hollister, "five of
you shall march in advance, and the remainder
shall cover our retreat towards the barrack, should
we be pressed. 'Tis an awful moment to a man
of little learning, Elizabeth, to command in such

-
