
a service; for my part, I wish devoutly that one
of the officers was here; but my trust is in the
Lord."
   "Pooh! man, away wid yee," said the washer-
woman, who had got herself comfortably seated,
"the divil a bit of an inimy is there near -- march
on hurry-skurry, and lit the mare trot, or it's but
little that Captain Jack will thank yee for the
help."
   "Although unlearned in matters of communi-
cating with spirits, or laying the dead, Mrs. Fla-
nagan," said the veteran, "I have not served
through the old war, and five years in this, not to
know how to guard the baggage. -- Doesn't Wash-
ington always cover the baggage? I am not to be
told my duty by a camp follower. Fall in as you
are ordered, and dress."
   "Well, march, any way," cried the impatient
washerwoman; "the black is there already, and it's
tardy the Captain will think yee."
   "Are you sure that it was a real black man that
brought the order?" said the sergeant, dropping
in between the platoons, where he could converse
with Betty, and was equally at hand to lead either
way.
   "Nay," said the washerwoman, "and I'm sure
of nothing, dear. But why don't the boys prick
their horses, and jog a trot; the mare is mighty
uneasy, and it's no warm in this cursed valley,
riding as much like a funeral party as old rags is
to continental."
   "Fairly and softly, aye, and prudently, Mrs.
Flanagan," said the veteran; "it's not rashness
that makes the good officer. If it is a spirit that
we have to encounter, it's more than likely that
he'll make his attack by surprise; -- horse are not
very powerful in the dark, and I have a character
to lose, good woman."

-
    
   "Caractur!" echoed Betty, "and is'nt it ca-
ractur and life too, that Capt. Jack has to lose?"
   "Halt!" cried the sergeant; "what is that
lurking near the foot of the rock, on the left?"
   "Sure it's nothing," said the uneasy washer-
woman, "unless it be the matter of Captain
Jack's sowl that's come to haunt yee, for not be-
ing brisker on the march."
   "Betty, 'tis foolishness to talk in such a way.
Advance one of you and reconnoitre the spot -- 
draw swords! -- rear rank close to the front!"
   "Pshaw!" shouted Betty, "is it a big fool or a
big coward that yee are? -- jist wheel from the
road, boys, and I'll shove the mare down upon it in
the twinkling of an eye -- and it's no ghost that I
fear."
   By this time, one of the men had returned, and
declared there was nothing to prevent their ad-
vancing, and the party continued their march, but
with great deliberation and caution.
   "Courage and prudence are the jewels of a
soldier, Mrs. Flanagan," said the sergeant; "and
without one the other may be said to be good for
nothing."
   "Prudence without courage," cried the other,
"is it that, you mane? -- and it's so that I'm think-
ing myself, sargeant. This baste pulls tight on
the reins, any way."
   "Be patient, good woman -- hark! what is that?"
said Hollister, pricking up his ears at the report
of Wellmere's pistol; "I'll swear 'tis a pistol, and
one from our regiment. -- Hark! rear rank close
to the front! -- Mrs. Flanagan I must leave you."
So saying, having recovered all his faculties, by
hearing a martial sound that he understood, he
placed himself at the head of his men with an air
of military pride, that the darkness prevented the

-
washerwoman from beholding. A volley of mus-
ketry now rattled in the night wind, and the ser-
geant exclaimed -- 
   "March! -- quick time!"
   The next instant the trampling of a horse was
heard coming up the road, at a rate that announ-
ced a matter of life or death, and Hollister again
halted his party, and rode a short distance in
front himself to meet the rider.
   "Stand! -- who goes there?" shouted Hollister,
in the full tones of manly resolution.
   "Ha! Hollister, is it you?" cried Lawton,
"ever ready and at your post; but where is the
guard?"
   "At hand, sir, and ready to follow you through
thick and thin," said the veteran, relieved at once
from his responsibility, and now eager to be led
against his enemy.
   " 'Tis well," said the trooper, riding up to his
men; and speaking a few words of encouragement,
he led them down the valley at a rate but little
less rapid than his approach. The miserable horse
of the sulter was soon distanced, and Betty thus
thrown out in the chance, turned to the side of the
road, and observed -- 
   "There -- it's no difficult to tell that Captain
Jack is wid'em, any way; and it's the funeral
that's soon over now; and away they go like so
many nagur boys to a husking-frolick; -- well, I'll
jist hitch the mare to this bit of a fence, and walk
down and see the sport, afoot -- it's no rasonable to
expose the baste to be hurted."
   Led on by Lawton, the men followed, destitute
alike of fear and reflection. Whether it was a
party of the refugees, or a detachment from the
royal army, that they were to assail, they were
profoundly ignorant, but they knew that the offi-
cer in advance was distinguished for courage and

-
personal prowess, and these are virtues that are
sure to captivate the thoughtless soldiery. On ar-
riving near the gate of the Locusts, the trooper
halted his party, and made his arrangements for
the assault. Dismounting, he ordered eight of his
men to follow his example, and turning to Hollis-
ter, said -- 
   "Stand you here, and guard the horses; but if
any thing attempts to pass, stop it or cut it down
and -- " The flames at this moment burst through
the dormant windows and cedar roof of the cot-
tage, and a bright light glared on the darkness of
the night. "On," shouted the trooper, "on -- -give
quarters when you have done justice."
   There was a startling fierceness in the voice of
the trooper that reached to the heart, even amid
the horrors of the cottage. The leader of the
skinners dropped his plunder, and for a moment
stood in nerveless dread; then rushing to a win-
dow, he threw up the sash -- at this instant
Lawton entered, sabre in hand, into the apart-
ment.
   "Die, miscreant!" cried the trooper, cleaving
the other marauder to the jaw, but the leader
sprang into the lawn, and escaped his vengeance.
The shrieks of the appalled females restored
Lawton to his presence of mind, and the earnest
entreaty of the divine, induced him to attend to
the safety of the family. One more of the gang
fell in with the dragoons, and met with a similar
fate, but the remainder had taken the alarm in
season to escape. Occupied with Sarah, neither
Miss Singleton nor the ladies of the house, disco-
vered the entrance of the skinners, until the flames
were raging around them with a fury that threat-
ened the building with instant destruction. The
shrieks of Katy and of the terrified consort of Cæ-

-
