
sar, together with the noise and uproar in the adja-
cent apartment, first roused Miss Peyton and Isa-
bella to a sense of their danger.
   "Merciful providence!" exclaimed the alarmed
spinster; "there is a dreadful confusion in the
house, and there will be bloodshed in consequence
of this affair."
   "There are none to fight," returned Isabella,
with a face paler than the other; "Dr. Sitgreaves
is very peaceable in his disposition, and surely
Capt. Lawton would not forget himself so far."
   "The southern temper is quick and fiery," con-
tinued Miss Peyton; "and your brother, feeble
and weak as he is, has looked the whole afternoon,
flushed and angry."
   "Good Heaven!" cried Isabella, with difficulty
supporting herself on the couch of Sarah; "he is
gentle as the lamb by nature, but the lion is not
his equal when roused."
   "We must interfere," said the spinster; "our
presence will quell the tumult, and possibly save
the life of a fellow creature."
   Miss Peyton was excited to do that which
she conceived was a duty worthy of her sex and
nature, and advanced with all the dignity of in-
jured female feeling to the door, followed by Isa-
bella, whose energy had returned, and whose eye,
by its sparkling brilliancy, announced a soul equal
to its task. The apartment, to which Sarah had
been conveyed, was in one of the wings of the
building, and communicated with the principal
hall of the cottage by a long and usually dark pas-
sage. This was now light, and across its termina-
tion several figures were noticed, rushing with an
impetuosity that prevented an examination of their
employment.
   "Let us advance," said the spinster, with a firm-

-
ness that her face belied: "They surely must re-
spect our sex."
   "They shall," cried Isabella, taking the lead in
the enterprise, and Frances was left alone with her
sister. A few minutes were passed in silence by
the maid, as she stood earnestly gazing on the pale
countenance of Sarah, watching her reviving looks
with an anxiety that prevented her observing the
absence of her friends, when a loud crash in the
upper apartments was succeeded by a bright light
that glared through the open door, and made ob-
jects as distinct to the eye as if they were placed
under a noon day sun. Sarah raised herself on
her bed, and staring wildly around, pressed both
her hands on her forehead, as if endeavouring to
recollect events, and then smiling vacantly on her
sister, said -- 
   "This, then, is heaven -- and you are one of its
bright spirits. Oh! how glorious is its radiance!
I had thought the happiness I have lately expe-
rienced was too much for earth. But we shall
meet again -- yes -- yes -- we will meet again."
   "Sarah! Sarah!" cried Frances, in terror; "my
sister -- my only sister -- Oh! do not smile so hor-
ridly: know me or you will break my heart."
   "Hush," said Sarah, raising her hand for silence;
"you may disturb his rest -- surely he will follow me
to the grave. Think you there can be two wives
in the grave? No -- no -- no -- one -- one -- one -- on-
ly one."
   Frances dropped her head into the lap of her sis-
ter, and wept in agony.
   "Do you shed tears, sweet angel," continued
Sarah, soothingly: "then heaven is not exempt
from grief. But where is Henry? He was exe-
cuted, and he must be here too; but perhaps they
will come together. Oh, how joyful will be the
meeting!"

-
    
   Frances sprang on her feet, and paced the apart-
ment in a bitterness of sorrow that she could not
controul. The eye of Sarah followed her in childish
admiration of her beauty and her attire, which had
been adapted to the occasion, and then pressing
her hand across her forehead, once more said -- 
   "You look like my sister; but all good and
lovely spirits are alike. Tell me, were you ever
married? Did you ever let another, and a stran-
ger, steal your affections from your father, and
brother, and sister, as I have done? If not, poor
wretch I pity you, although you may be in heaven."
   "Sarah -- peace, peace -- I implore you to be si-
lent," shrieked Frances, again rushing to her bed,
"or you will kill me at your feet."
   Another dreadful crash was heard, that shook
the building to its centre. It was the falling of
the roof, and the flames threw their light abroad
so as to make objects visible around the cottage
through the windows of the room. Frances flew
to one of them, and saw the confused group that
was collected on the lawn. Among them were
her aunt and Isabella, pointing to the fiery edifice
with distraction, and apparently urging the dra-
goons who were near them to enter it. It was the
first time the maid comprehended their danger,
and uttering a wild shriek, she flew through the
passage instinctively, without consideration or ob-
ject.
   A dense and suffocating column of smoke op-
posed her progress. She paused to breathe, when
a man caught her in his arms, and bore her in a
state of insensibility through the falling embers and
darkness, to the open air. The instant that Fran-
ces recovered her recollection, she perceived
that it was to Lawton she owed her life, and
throwing herself on her knees before him, she
cried -- 

-
    
   "Sarah, Sarah, Sarah! Save my sister, and may
the blessing of God await you."
   Her strength failed her, and she sunk on the
grass in insensibility. The trooper pointed to her
figure, and motioned to Katy for assistance, and
then advanced once more near to the cottage.
The fire had already communicated to the wood-
work of the piazzas and windows, and the whole
exterior of the cottage, was covered with smoke.
The only entrance was through these dangers, and
even the hardy and impetuous Lawton paused to
consider. It was for a moment only, and he dashed
into the heat and darkness, where missing the en-
trance, he wandered for a minute, and precipitated
himself back again into the lawn. Drawing a sin-
gle breath of pure air, he renewed the effort, and
was again unsuccessful; but on a third trial, he
met a man staggering under the load of a human
body. It was neither the place, nor was there time,
to question or to make distinctions, and the troop-
er caught both together in his arms, and with gi-
gantic strength, bore them through the smoke. To
his astonishment, he perceived that it was the sur-
geon and the body of one of the Skinners that he
had saved.
   "Archibald!" he exclaimed, "why, in the name
of justice did you bring this dead miscreant to light
again? His deeds are rank to heaven!"
   The operator was too much bewildered to re-
ply instantly, but wiping the moisture from his
forehead, and clearing his lungs from the vapour
that he had inhaled, he said, piteously -- 
   "Ah! it is all over. Had I been in time to have
stopped the effusion from the jugular, he might
have been saved; but the heat was conducive to
hermorrhage; yes, life is extinct indeed. Well, are
there any more wounded?"
   His question was put to the air, for Frances

-
was removed to the opposite side of the building,
where her friends were collected, and Lawton
once more had disappeared in the smoke.
   By this time the flames had dispersed much of
the suffocating vapor, so that the trooper was able
to find the door, and in its very entrance he was
met by a man supporting the insensible Sarah in
his arms. There was but barely time to reach
the lawn again before the fire broke through all
the windows, and wrapped the whole building in a
single sheet of flame.
   "God be praised," ejaculated the preserver of
Sarah: "It would have been an awful death to
have died."
   The trooper turned from gazing at the edifice,
to the speaker, and, to his astonishment, instead of
one of his own men, beheld the pedlar.
   "Ha! the spy," he exclaimed. "By heavens!
you cross me like a spectre."
