
   "Oh!" cried Lawton, "your claims will be in-
disputable, while all these vile tories, who live at
home peaceably to take care of their farms, will
be held in the contempt they merit. You have
no farm I suppose?"
   "Not yet -- but it will go hard if I do not find
one before the peace is made."
   "Right; study your own interests and you study
the interests of your country -- press the point of
your own services, and rail at the tories, and I'll
bet my spurs against a rusty nail, that you get to
be a county-clerk at least."
   "Don't you think Paulding's party were fools
in not letting the Royal Adjutant-General es-

-
cape?" said the man, thrown off his guard by the
freedom of the captain's manner.
   "Fools!" cried Lawton, with a bitter laugh;
"Ay fools indeed -- King George would have paid
them better, for he is richer. He would have
made them gentlemen for their lives. But, thank
God, there is a pervading spirit in the people that
seems miraculous. Men who have nothing, act
as if the wealth of the Indies depended on their
fidelity -- all are not villains like yourself, or we
should have been slaves to England years ago."
   "How!" exclaimed the Skinner, starting back
and dropping his musket to the level of the other's
breast, "am I betrayed then -- and are you my
enemy!"
   "Miscreant!" shouted Lawton, his sabre ring-
ing in its steel scabbard as he struck the musket
of the fellow from his hands, "offer but again to
point your gun at me, and I'll cleave you to the
middle."
   "And you will not pay us then, Captain Law-
ton?" asked the Skinner, trembling, and noticing
a party of mounted dragoons silently encircling
the whole party.
   "O! pay you -- yes -- you shall have the full
measure of your reward -- there is the money that
Colonel Singleton sent down for the captors of the
Spy," throwing a bag of guineas with disdain at
the other's feet. "But ground your arms, you
rascals, and see that the money is truly told."
   The intimidated band did as they were ordered,
and while they were hastily employed in this
pleasing avocation, a few of Lawton's men pri-
vately knocked the flints from their muskets.
   "Well," cried the captain, "is it right -- have
you the promised reward?"
   "There is just the money," said the leader,

-
"and we will now go to our homes with your per-
mission."
   "Hold!" returned Lawton, with his usual gra-
vity; "so much to redeem our promise -- now for
justice; we pay you for taking a Spy, but we
punish you for burning, robbing, and murdering -- 
seize them, my lads, and give them each the Law
of Moses -- forty save one."
   This command was given to no unwilling listen-
ers, and in the twinkling of an eye the Skinners
were stripped and fastened, by the halters of the
party, to as many of the apple-trees as was neces-
sary to furnish one to each of the gang; swords
were quickly drawn, and fifty branches cut from
the trees like magic: from these were selected a
few of the most supple of the twigs, and a willing
dragoon was soon found to wield each of these
new weapons. Captain Lawton gave the word,
humanely cautioning his men not to exceed the
discipline prescribed by the Mosaic Law, and
directly the uproar of Babel commenced in the
orchard. The cries of the leader were easily to
be distinguished above those of his men, and the
circumstance might be accounted for, by Captain
Lawton's reminding his corrector that he had to
deal with an officer, and he should remember and
pay him unusual honour. The flagellation was
executed with great neatness and despatch, and
was distinguished by no irregularity excepting that
none of the disciplinarians began to count until
they had tried their whips by a dozen or more
blows, by the way, as they said themselves, of
finding out the proper places to strike. As soon
as this summary operation was satisfactorily com-
pleted, Lawton directed his men to leave the
Skinners to replace their own clothes, and to
nount their horses, as they were a party who had

-
been detailed for the purpose of patroling lower
down in the county.
   "You see, my friend," said the captain to the
leader of the Skinners, after he had prepared himself
to depart, "I can cover you to some purpose when
necessary. If we meet often, you will be covered
with scars, which, if not very honourable, will be
at least merited."
   The fellow made no reply, but was busy with
his musket, and hastening his comrades to march;
when, every thing being ready, they proceeded
sullenly towards some rocks, at no great distance,
which were overhung by a deep wood. The
moon was just rising, and the group of dragoons
could easily be distinguished where they had been
left. Suddenly turning, the whole gang levelled
their pieces and drew the triggers. The action
was noticed and the snapping of the locks was
heard by the soldiers, who returned their futile
attempt with a laugh of derision -- the captain
crying aloud -- 
   "Ah! rascals, I know you -- and have taken
away your flints."
   "You should have taken away the one in my
pocket too," shouted the leader, firing his gun in
the next instant. The bullet grazed the ear of
Lawton, who laughed as he shook his head, and
said, "a miss was as good as a mile." One
of the dragoons had noticed the preparations of
the Skinner, who had been left alone by the rest
of his gang, as soon as they had made their abor-
tive attempt at revenge, and was in the act of
plunging his spurs in his horse as the fellow fired.
The distance to the rocks was but small, yet the
speed of the horse compelled the leader to aban-
don both money and musket, to effect his escape.
The soldier returned with his prizes and offered
them to the acceptance of his captain, but Law-

-
ton rejected them coolly, telling the man to retain
them himself, until the Skinner appeared in per-
son to claim his property. It would have been a
business of no small difficulty for any tribunal
then existing in the new states, to have enforced
a decree of restitution of the money, for it was
shortly after most equitably distributed by the
hands of Sergeant Hollister, among a troop of
horse. The patrole departed, and the captain
slowly returned to his quarters, with an intent of
retiring to rest. A figure moving rapidly among
the trees in the direction of the wood, whither the
Skinners had retired, caught his eye, and, wheeling
on his heel, the cautious partisan approached it,
and to his astonishment saw the washerwoman at
that hour of the night, and in such a place.
   "What, Betty! -- walking in your sleep, or
dreaming while awake," cried the astonished
trooper, "are you not afraid of meeting with the
ghost of ancient Jenny in this her favourite pas-
ture?"
   "Ah, sure, Captain Jack," returned the suttler
in her native accent, and reeling in a manner that
made it difficult for her to raise her head, "its
not Jenny, or her ghost, that I'm seeking -- but some
yarbs for the wounded. And its the vartue of the
rising moon, as it jist touches them, that I want.
They grow under yon rocks, and thither I must
hasten or the charm will lose its power."
   "Fool, you are fitter for your pallet than wan-
dering among those rocks -- a fall from one of them
would break your bones -- besides, the Skinners
have fled to those heights, and should they see
you, would revenge on you a flogging they have
but just now received from me. Better return
old woman, and finish your nap -- we march in the
morning, I hear."
   Betty disregarded his advice, and continued her

-
