
   "Capt. Lawton," said Birch, leaning in momen-
tary exhaustion against the fence to which they
had retired from the heat, "I am again in your
power, for I can neither flee nor resist."
   "The cause of America is dear to me as life,"
said the trooper; "but she cannot require me
to forget both gratitude and honour. Fly, unhap-
py man, while yet you are unseen by my men, or
I cannot save you."
   "May God prosper you, and make you victori-
ous over your enemies," cried Birch, grasping the
hand of the dragoon with an iron strength that his
meagre figure did not indicate.
   "Hold!" said Lawton, "but a word -- are you
what you seem? -- can you -- are you -- "
   "A royal spy," interrupted Birch, averting his
face, and endeavouring to release his hand.
   "Then go, miserable wretch," said the trooper,

-
relinquishing his grasp; "either avarice or delu-
sion has lead a noble heart astray."
   The bright light from the flames reached to a
great distance around what was left of the build-
ing, but the words were hardly passed the lips of
Lawton, before the gaunt form of the pedlar had
glided over the visible space and plunged into
the darkness beyond, which was rendered more
gloomy by the contrast.
   The eye of Lawton rested for a moment on the
spot where he had last seen this inexplicable man,
and then turning to the yet insensible Sarah, he
lifted her in his arms, and bore her like a sleeping
infant to the care of her friends.

-
Chapter 7
CHAPTER VII.
"And now her charms are fading fast, 
Her spirits now no more are gay! 
Alas! that beauty cannot last! 
That flowers so sweet so soon decay! 
     How sad appears 
     The vale of years, 
How chang'd from youth's too flattering scene! 
Where are her fond admirers gone? 
Alas! and shall there then be none 
On whom her soul may lean?" 
Cynthia's grave. 
    
   The torrent and the blast can mar the loveliest
scenes in nature; -- war, with his ruthless hand
may rival the elements in their work of destruc-
tion -- but it is passion alone that can lay waste the
human heart. The whirlwind and the floor have
duration in their existence, and have bounds to
their fury; the earth recovers from the devasta-
tion of the conflict with a fertility that seems en-
riched by the blood of its victims. -- But there are
feelings that no human agency can limit, and men-
tal wounds that surpass the art of man to heal.
   For some years Sarah Wharton had indulged in
contemplations on the person and character of
Wellmere, that were natural to her sex and situa-
tion; and now, when these transient recollections
were become permanent from security, and she
looked forward to the moment that she was to
take the most momentous step of her life, with that
engrossing passion which marks a woman's love,
the discovery of his real character was a blow too

-
heavy for her faculties to bear. It has already
been seen, that her first indications of returning life,
were unaccompanied by a consciousness of what
had so recently occurred, nor did her friends, on
receiving her from the arms of the trooper, reco-
ver more than the lovely image of her whom they
had once known.
   The walls of the cottage were all that was
left of the building, and these, blackened by
smoke and stripped of their piazzas and orna-
ments, served only as dreary memorials of the
peaceful contentment and security that had so late-
ly reigned within. The roof, together with the rest
of the wood-work, had tumbled into the cellars,
and a pale and flitting light ascending from their
embers, shone faintly through the windows on ob-
jects in the lawn. The early flight of the Skin-
ners left the dragoons at liberty to exert them-
selves in saving much of the furniture from the
flames, and this lay scattered in heaps, giving the
finishing touch of desolation to the scene. When-
ever a stronger ray of light than common shot up-
wards, the composed figures of sergeant Hollister
and his associates, sitting on their horses in rigid
discipline, were to be seen in the back ground of
the picture, together with the beast of Mrs. Flan-
agan, that having slipt its bridle, was quietly graz-
ing by the highway. Betty herself had advanced
to where the sergeant was posted, and with an in-
credible degree of composure, witnessed the whole
of the events as they occurred. More than once
she suggested to her companion the probability,
as the fighting seemed to be over, that the proper
time for plunder was arrived, but the veteran
promptly acquainted her with his orders, and re-
mained both inflexible and immoveable; until the
washerwoman noticing Lawton to come round the
wing of the building with Sarah, ventured by her-
self amongst the warriors. The trooper, after

-
placing Sarah on a sofa that had been hurled from
the building by two of his men, refired with deli-
cacy, that the ladies might succeed him in his care,
and in order to reflect on what further was neces-
sary to be done. Miss Peyton and her niece flew,
with a rapture that was blessed with a momentary
forgetfulness of all but her preservation, to receive
Sarah from the trooper, but the vacant eye and
flushed cheek, restored them instantly to their re-
collection.
   "Sarah, my child, my beloved niece." said the
spinster, folding her in her arins, "you are saved,
and may the blessing of God await him who has
been the instrument."
   "See," said Sarah, gently pushing her aunt
aside, and pointing to the glimmering ruins, "the
windows are illuminated in honour of my arrival.
They always receive a bride thus -- he told me so;
listen, and you will hear the bells."
   "Here is no bride, no rejoicing, nothing but
woe," cried Frances, in a manner but little less
frantic than that of her sister; "Oh! may heaven
restore you my sister to us -- to yourself."
   "Peace, foolish young woman," said Sarah,
with a smile of affected pity, "all cannot be hap-
py at the same moment; perhaps you have no
brother, or no husband to console you; you look
beautiful, and will yet find one, but," she con-
tinued, dropping her voice to a whisper, "see
that he has no other wife -- 'tis dreadful to think
what might happen should he be twice married."
   "The shock has destroyed her mind," said
Miss Peyton, shaking with apprehension, and
clasping her hands in agony, "my child, my beau-
teous Sarah is a maniac."
   "No, no, no," cried Frances, "it is fever -- 
she is light-headed -- -- she must recover -- she shall
recover."

-
