
    
   The aunt caught joyfully at the hope conveyed
in this suggestion, and despatched Katy to request
the immediate aid and advice of Dr. Sitgreaves.
The operator was found enquiring among the men
for professional employment, and inquisitively ex-
amining every bruise and scratch that he could
induce the sturdy warriors to acknowledge they
had received. A summons of the sort conveyed
by Katy was instantly obeyed, and not a minute
elapsed before he was by the side of Miss Peyton.
   "This is a melancholy termination to so joyful
a commencement of the night. Madam," he obser-
ved, with a soothing manner; "but war must bring
its attendant miseries, though doubtless it often
supports the cause of liberty, and improves the
knowledge of surgical science."
   Miss Peyton could make no reply, but pointed
to her niece in agony.
   " 'Tis fever," answered Frances, "see how
glassy is her eye, and look at her cheek, how
flushed."
   The surgeon stood for a moment deeply study-
ing the outward symptoms of his patient, and then
silently took her hand into his own. It was sel-
dom that the hard and abstracted features of the
operator discovered any violent emotion; all his
passions seemed schooled to the most classical dig-
nity, and his countenance did not often betray
what his heart so frequently felt. In the present
instance, however, the eager gaze of the aunt and
sister soon detected the emotions of Sitgreaves.
After laying his fingers for a minute on the beau-
tiful arm, which, bared to the elbow, and glitter-
ing with jewels, Sarah suffered him to retain, he
dropped it with a heavy sigh, and dashing his hand
over his eyes, turned sorrowfully to Miss Peyton
as he said -- -

-
    
   "Here is no fever to excite -- 'tis a case, my
dear madam, for time and care only; these, with
the blessing of God, may effect a cure."
   "And where is the wretch who has caused this
ruin," exclaimed Singleton, rejecting the support
of his man, and making an effort to rise from the
chair where the care of his sister had placed him.
"It is in vain that we overcome our enemies, if con-
quered they can still inflict such wounds as this."
   "Dos't think foolish boy," said Lawton with a
bitter smile, "that hearts can feel in a colony?
What is America but a satellite of England -- to
move as she moves, follow where she wists, and
shine that the mother country may become more
splendid by her radiance. Surely you forget that
it is honour enough for a colonist to receive ruin
from the hand of a child of Britain."
   "I forget not that I wear a sword," said Single-
ton, falling back exhausted; "but was there no
willing arm ready to avenge that lovely sufferer -- 
to appease the wrongs of this hoary father."
   "Neither arms nor hearts are wanting, sir, in
such a cause," said the trooper fiercely; "but
chance oftentimes helps the wicked. By heavens,
I'd give Roanoke himself for a clear field with the
miscreant."
   "Nay! captain dear, no be parting with the
horse, any way," said Betty, with a significant
look; "it is no trifle that can be had by jist ask-
ing, and the baste is sure of foot and jumps like a
squirrel."
   "Woman!" cried Lawton, "fifty horses, ay, the
best that were ever reared on the banks of the
Potomac, would be but a paltry price for one blow
at such a villain."
   "Come." said the surgeon, "the night air can
do no service to George or these ladies, and it is
incumbent on us to remove them where they

-
can find surgical attendance and refreshment.
Here is nothing but smoking ruins and the miasma
of the swamps."
   To this rational proposition, no objection could
be raised, and the necessary orders were issued
by Lawton to remove the whole party to the Four
Corners.
   America furnished but few and very indif-
ferent carriage makers at the period of which we
write, and every vehicle that in the least as-
pired to the dignity of patrician notice, was the
manufacture of a London mechanic. When Mr.
Wharton left the city, he was one of the very few
that maintained the state of a carriage in his estab-
lishment, and at the time that Miss Peyton and
his daughters joined him in his retirement, they
had been conveyed to the cottage in the heavy
chariot that had once so imposingly rolled through
the windings of Queen Street, or emerged with
sombre dignity into the more spacious drive of
Broadway. This vehicle stood undisturbed where
it had been placed on its arrival, and the ages of
the horses had alone protected the favourites of
Cæsar from sequestration, by the contending for-
ces in their neighbourhood. With a heavy heart
the black, assisted by a few of the dragoons, pro-
ceeded to prepare it for the reception of the la-
dies. It was a cumbrous vehicle, whose faded
linings and tarnished hammercloths, together with
its pannels of changing colour, denoted the want
of that art which had once given it lustre and
beauty. The "lion couchant" of the Wharton
arms, was reposing on the reviving splendour of a
blazonry that told the armorial bearings of a prince
of the church, and the mitre that already began
to shine through its American mask, was a symbol
of the rank of its original owner. The chaise
which conveyed Miss Singleton was also safe, for

-
the stables and out-buildings had entirely escaped
the flames; it certainly had been no part of the
plan of the marauders to leave so well appointed
a stud behind them, but the suddenness of the at-
tack by Lawton, not only disconcerted their
arrangement on this point, but on many others
also. A guard was left on the ground under the
command of Hollister, who having discovered that
his enemy was of mortal mould, took his position
with admirable coolness and no little skill, to
guard against surprise. He drew off his small
party to such a distance from the ruins, that it was
effectually concealed in the darkness, while at the
same time the light continued sufficiently power-
ful to discover any one, who might approach the
lawn with an intent to plunder.
   Satisfied with this judicious arrangement, Capt.
Lawton made his dispositions for the march: Miss
Peyton and her two nieces with Isabella, were pla-
ced in the chariot, while the cart of Mrs. Flanagan
being amply supplied with blankets and a bed, was
honoured with the persons of Capt. Singleton and
his man. Dr. Sitgreaves took charge of the chaise
and Mr. Wharton, and what became of the rest of
the family during that eventful night is unknown;
for Cæsar, alone, of the domestics, was to be found,
if we except the house keeper. Having disposed of
the whole party in this manner, Lawton gave the
word to march. He remained himself for a few
minutes alone on the lawn, secreting various pieces
of plate and other valuables, that he ws fearful
might tempt the cupidity of his own men; when
perceiving nothing more that he conceived likely
to overcome their honesty, he threw himself into
the saddle, with the soldierly intention of bringing
up the rear.
   "Stop, stop." cried a female voice, "will you
leave me alone to be murdered; the spoon is

-
melted I believe, and I'll have compensation if
there's law or justice in the land."
   Lawton turned an enquiring eye in the direction
of the sound, and perceived a female emerging
from the ruins, loaded with an enormous bundle,
that vied in size with the renowned pack of the
pedlar.
   "Who have we here?" said the trooper, " ri-
sing like a phoenix from the flames; oh! by the
soul of Hippocrates, but it is the identical she-
doctor of famous needle reputation. Well, good
woman, what means this outcry?"
   "Outcry!" echoed Katy, panting for breath;
"is it not disparagement enough to lose a silver
spoon, but I must be left alone in this dreary place
to be robbed, and perhaps murdered? Harvey
would not serve me so; when I lived with Harvey
I was always treated with respect at least, if he
was a little close with his secrets, and wasteful
with his money."
   "Then you once formed part of the household,
Madam, of Mr. Harvey Birch?"
   "You may say I was the whole of his house-
hold," returned the other; "there was nobody but
I and he, and the old gentleman; you did'nt know
the old gentleman, did you?"
   "That happiness was denied me," said Lawton,
"but how long did you live in the family of this
Birch?"
