
   "I disremember the precise time," said Katy,
"but it must have been hard on upon nine years,
but what better am I for it all?"
   "Sure enough, I can see but little benefit that
you have derived from the association truly. But
is there not something odd in Mr. Birch?"
   "Odd indeed," replied Katy, lowering her voice
and looking around her; "he was a wonderful
disregardful man, and minded a guinea no more

-
than I do a karnal of corn. But help me to some
way of joining Miss Jeanette, and I will tell you
prodigies of what Harvey has done first and last."
   "You will!" exclaimed the trooper, musing,
"here, give me leave to feel your arm above the
elbow -- -there -- -it is no small matter of bone that
you have, I see." So saying he gave the spinster
a sudden whirl that at once destroyed her philoso-
phy of mind, and effectually confused all her fa-
culties, until she found herself safely if not com-
fortably seated on the crupper of Lawton's steed.
   "Now, Madam, you have the consolation of
knowing that you are as well mounted as heart
can wish. The nag is sure of foot, and will leap
like a panther."
   "Let me get down," cried Katy, struggling to
release herself from his iron grasp, and yet afraid
of falling; "this is no way to put a woman on a
horse, besides I can't ride without a pillion."
   "Softly, good madam," said Lawton; "for al-
though Roanoke never falls before, he sometimes
rises behind. He is far from being accustomed to
a pair of heels beating upon his flanks like a drum-
major on a field day -- a single touch of the spur
will serve him for a fortnight, and it's by no
means wise to be kicking in this manner, for he is
a horse that but little likes to be outdone."
   "Let me down, I say," screamed Katy, "I
shall fall and be killed. Besides, I have nothing to
hold on with, my arms are full, don't you see."
   "True," returned the trooper, observing that
he had brought bundle and all from the ground,
"I perceive that you belong to the baggage guard;
but my sword-belt will encircle your little waist
as well as my own."
   Katy was too much pleased with this compli-
ment to make any resistance while he buckled
her close to his own Herculean frame, and driving

-
a spur into his charger they flew from the lawn with
a rapidity that defied further denial. After trotting
on for some time, at a rate that discomposed the
spinster vastly, they overtook the cart of the washer-
woman driving slowly over the stones, with a proper
consideration for the wounds of Capt. Singleton.
The occurrences of that eventful night had pro-
duced an excitement in the young soldier, that
was followed by the ordinary lassitude of re-action,
and he lay carefully enveloped in blankets, and
supported by his man, but little able to converse,
though deeply brooding over the past. The dia-
logue between Lawton and his companion,
ceased with the commencement of their motions,
but a foot pace being more favourable to speech,
the trooper began anew -- 
   "Then you have been an inmate in the same
house with Harvey Birch?"
   "For more as nine years," said Katy, drawing
her breath, and rejoicing greatly that their speed
was abated.
   The deep tones of the trooper's voice, were
soon convey'd by the night air to the ears of the
washerwoman, and turning her head, where she
sat directing the movements of her mare, she
heard both question and answer.
   "Belike then, good woman, yee'r knowing
whether or no he's a-kin to Beelzeboob," said
Betty; "it's Sargeant Hollister who's saying the
same, and no fool is the sargent, any way."
   "It's a scandalous disparagement," cried Katy,
most vehemently, "there's no kinder soul than
Harvey that carries a pack; and for a gownd or a
tidy apron, he will never take a King's farthing
from a friend. Belzebub indeed! For what would
he read the bible if he had bealings with the evil
spirit?"

-
    
   "He's an honest divil, any way, as I was say-
ing before," returned Betty; "the guinea was
pure. But then the sargeant thinks him amiss,
and it's no want of larning that Mister Hollister
has."
   "He's a fool," said Katy tartly. "Harvey moutht
be a man of substance, but he's so disregardful.
How often have I told him, that if he did nothing
but peddle, and would put his gains to use, and
get married, so that things at home could be kept
snug and tidy, and leave off his dealings with the
rig'lars and all sich incumberments, that he would
soon be an excellent liver. Sergeant Hollister
would be glad to hold a candle to him, I guess,
indeed."
   "Pooh!" said Betty, in her philosophical way;
"yee'r no thinking that Mister Hollister is an offi-
cer, and stands next the cornet in the troop.
But this pedlar gave warning of the brush, the
night, and it's no sure, that Captain Jack would
have got the day, but for the rinforcement."
   "How say you, Betty," cried the trooper,
bending forward on his saddle, "had you notice
of our danger from this said Birch?"
   "The very same, darling; and it's hurry I was
till the boys was in motion -- not but I knew yee'r
enough for the cow-boys, any time. But wi'd
the divil on your side, I was sure of the day. I'm
only wondering there's so little plunder in a busi-
ness of Beelzeboob's contriving."
   "I'm obliged to you for the rescue," said Law-
ton, "and equally indebted to the motive."
   "Is it the plunder? But little did I think of it,
till I saw the moveables on the ground, some burnt
and some broke, and other some as good as new.
It would be convanient to have one feather bed
in the corps, any way."

-
    
   "By heavens, 'twas timely succour. Had not
Roanoke been swifter than their bullets, I must
have fallen. The animal is worth his weight in
gold."
   "It's continental you mane, darling. Goold
weighs heavy, and is no plenty in the States. If
the nagur had'nt been staying and frighting the
sargeant with his copper-coloured looks, and a
matter of blarney 'bout ghosts, we should have
been in time to have killed all the dogs, and taken
the rest prisoners."
   "It is very well as it is, Betty," said Lawton;
"a day will yet come, I trust, when these mis-
creants will be rewarded -- if not in judgments
upon their persons, at least in the opinions of their
fellow citizens. The time must arrive when
America will learn to distinguish between a patriot
and a robber."
   "Speak low," said Katy; "there's some who
think much of themselves that have doings with
the skinners."
   "It's more they are thinking of themselves then,
than other people thinks of them," cried Betty;
a thief's a thief, any way, whether he stales for
King George or for Congress."
   "I knew that evil would soon happen," said
Katy; "the sun set to-night behind a black cloud,
and the house-dog whined, although I gave him
his supper with my own hands; besides, it's not a
week sin I dreamed that dream about the thou-
sand lighted candles, and the cakes being burnt
in the oven. Miss Peyton said it was all because
I had the tallow melted to dip the next day, and
a new baking set; but I know'd better nor that
from the beginning."
   "Well," said Betty, "it's but little I drame,
any way -- jist keep an asy conscience and a plenty
of the stuff in yee, and yee'l sleep like an infant.
