

-
The last drame I had was when the boys put the
thistle-tops in the blankets, and then I was think-
ing that Captain Jack's man was currying me
down, for the matter of Roanoke: but it's no trifle
I mind either in skin or stomach."
   "I'm sure," said Katy, with a stiff erection that
drew Lawton back in his saddle, "no man should
ever dare to lay hands on any bed of mine -- it's
indecent and despisable conduct."
   "Pooh! pooh!" cried Betty; "if you tag after
a troop of horse, a small bit of a joke must be
borne: what would become of the states and
liberty if the boys had never a clane shirt or a
drop to comfort them? Ask Captain Jack there, if
they'd fight, Mrs. Beelzeboob, and they no clane
linen to keep the victory in."
   "I'm a single woman, and my name is Haynes,"
said Katy, "and I'd thank you to use no disparag-
ing terms when speaking to me; it's what I isn't
use to, and Harvey is no more of Beelzebub nor
yourself."
   "You must tolerate a little license in the
tongue of Mrs. Flanagan, madam," said the
trooper; "the drop she speaks of is often of an
extraordinary size, and then she has acquired the
freedom of a soldier's manner."
   "Pooh! captain, darling," cried Betty, "why
do you bother the woman -- talk like yeerself,
dear, and it's no fool of a tongue that yee've got
in yee'r own head. But it's here away that the
sargeant made a halt, thinking there might be
more divils than one stirring, the night. The
clouds are as black as Arnold's heart, and deuce
the star is there a twinkling among them. Well,
the mare is used to a march after night-fall, and is
smelling out the road like a pointer slut."
   "It wants but little to the rising moon," observ-
ed the trooper. He called a dragoon who was

-
riding in advance, to him, gave a few orders and
cautions relative to the comfort and safety of Sin-
gleton, and speaking a consoling word to his friend
himself, gave Roanoke the spur, and dashed by
the cart at a rate that again put to flight all the
philosophy of Katharine Haynes.
   "Good luck to yee for a free rider and a bold,"
shouted the washerwoman as he passed, "if yee'r
meeting Mister Beelzeboob, jist back the baste
up to him and show him his consort that yee've
got on the crupper. I'm thinking it's no long he'd
tarry to chat. Well, well, it's his life that we sa-
ved, he was saying himself -- though the plunder
is nothing to signify."
   The cries of Betty Flanagan were too familiar
to the ears of Captain Lawton to cause any alte-
ration in the gait of his steed, or to elicit a reply.
Notwithstanding the unusual burden that Roanoke
sustained, he got over the ground with great ra-
pidity, and the distance between the cart of Mrs.
Flanagan and the chariot of Miss Peyton, was
passed in a manner that, however it answered the
intentions of the trooper, in no degree contributed
to the comfort of his companion. The meeting
occurred but a short distance from the quarters of
Lawton, and at the same instant the moon broke
from behind a mass of clouds that hovered over
the horizon, and threw a light upon objects that
seemed paler than usual after the glaring bright-
ness of the conflagration. There is, however, a
sweetness in moonlight that no competition of art
can equal, and Lawton checked his horse, and
mused in silence for the remainder of the ride.
   Compared with the simple elegance and sub-
stantial comfort of the Locusts, the "Hotel Fla-
nagan" presented but a dreary spectacle. In the
place of carpeted floors and curtained windows,
were the yawning cracks of a rudely constructed

-
dwelling, and boards and paper were ingenious-
ly applied to supply the place of the green glass
in more than half the lights. The care of Law-
ton had anticipated every improvement that their
situation would allow, and blazing fires were made
before the party arrived, to cheer as much as pos-
sible the desolation within. The dragoons who
had been charged with this duty, conveyed a few
necessary articles of furniture, and Miss Peyton
and her companions on alighting, found something
like habitable apartments prepared for their re-
ception. The mind of Sarah had continued to
wander during the ride, and, with the pliability of
insanity, she accommodated every circumstance to
the feelings that were uppermost in her own bo-
som. It was necessary to support her to the room
intended for the ladies; but the instant she was
placed on the seat where her sister sat, she passed
an arm affectionately around the waist of Frances,
and pointing slowly with the other, said in an un-
der tone -- -
   "See, this is the palace of his father; here is
the light of a thousand torches -- -but no bride-
groom. Oh! never -- -never wed without a ring -- -
a prepared ring; and be wary lest another has a
right to it. Poor little girl, how you tremble! but
you are safe -- -there never can be two bridegrooms
for more than one bride. -- -Oh! -- -no -- -no -- -no -- -
do not tremble, do not weep, you are safe."
   "It is impossible to minister to a mind that has
sustained such a blow," said the trooper, who was
compassionately regarding the ruin, to Isabella
Singleton; "time and God's mercy can alone
avail her; but something more may be done to-
wards the bodily comfort of you all. You are a
solider's daughter and used to scenes like this; -- 
help me to exclude some of the cold air from these
windows."

-
    
   Miss Singleton promptly acceded to his request,
and while Lawton was endeavouring from without
to remedy the defect of broken panes, Isabella
was arranging a substitute for a curtain within.
   "I hear the cart," said the trooper, in reply to
one of her interrogatories. "Betty is tender-
hearted in the main; believe me, poor George
will not only be safe but comfortable."
   "God bless her for her care, and bless you all,"
said Isabella fervently. "Dr. Sitgreaves has gone
down the road to meet him, I know -- but what is
that glittering in the moon-beams?"
   Directly opposite to the window where they
stood, were the out-buildings of the farm, and the
quick eye of Lawton caught at a glance the object
to which she alluded.
   " 'Tis the glare of fire-arms," said the trooper,
springing from the window towards his charger,
who yet remained caparisoned at the door. His
movement was quick as thought, but a flash of fire
was followed by the whistling of a bullet, before
he had proceeded a step. A loud shriek burst from
the dwelling, and the Captain sprang into his sad-
dle -- the whole was the business of but a moment.
   "Mount -- mount, and follow," shouted the
trooper, and before his astonished men could un-
derstand the cause of alarm, Roanoke had carried
him in safety over the fence which intervened be-
tween him and his foe. The chase was for life and
death, but the distance to the rocks was again too
short, and the disappointed trooper saw his intend-
ed victim vanish in their clefts where he could
not follow.
   "By the life of Washington," muttered Law-
ton, as he sheathed his sabre, "I would have made
two halves of him had he not been so nimble on
the foot -- but a time will come." So saying he
returned to his quarters with the indifference of a

-
man who knew his life was at any moment to be
offered a sacrifice to his country. An extraordi-
nary tumult in the house induced him to quicken
his speed, and on arriving at the door, the panic-
stricken Katy informed him that, the bullet aimed
at his own life had taken effect in the bosom of
Miss Singleton.
