

-
Chapter 8
CHAPTER VIII.
Hush'd were his Gertrude's lips! but still their bland 
And beautiful expression seem'd to melt 
With love that could not die! and still his hand 
She presses to the heart no more that felt. 
Gertrude of Wyoming. 
    
   The brief arrangement of the dragoons had pre-
pared two apartments for the reception of the la-
dies, the one being intended as a sleeping room
and situated within the other. Into the latter,
Isabella was immediately conveyed at her own
request, and placed on a rude bed by the side of
the unconscious Sarah. When Miss Peyton and
Frances flew to her assistance, they found her
with a smile on her pallid lips, and a composure
in her countenance, that induced them to think
her uninjured.
   "God be praised," exclaimed the trembling
spinster; "the report of fire-arms, and your fall,
had led me into an error. Surely, surely, there
was enough of horror before, but this has been
spared us."
   Isabella pressed her hands upon her bosom, still
smiling, but with a ghastliness that curdled the
blood of Frances, and said -- 
   "Is George far distant? let him know -- hasten
him, that I may see my brother once again."
   "It is as I apprehended!" shrieked Miss Pey-
ton; "but you smile -- surely you are unhurt."

-
    
   "Quite well -- quite happy," murmured Isabel-
la; "here is a remedy for every pain."
   Sarah arose from the reclining posture she had
taken, and gazed wildly at her companion. She
stretched forth her own hand, and raised that of
Isabella from her bosom, where she had continued
to hold it, and exhibited it stained with blood.
   "See," said Sarah, there is blood, but it will
wash away love! Marry, young woman, and then
no one can expel him from your heart, unless,"
she added, whispering and bending over the other,
"you find another there before you -- then die and
go to heaven -- there are no wives in heaven."
   The lovely maniac hid her face under the
clothes, and continued silent during the remain-
der of the night. It was at this moment that Law-
ton entered. Inured as he was to danger in all its
forms, and accustomed to the horrors of a partisan
war, the trooper could not behold the ruin before
him unmoved. He bent over the fragile form of
Isabella, and the gloomy lowering of his eye be-
trayed the extraordinary workings of his soul.
   "Isabella," he at length ultered, "I know you
to possess a courage beyond the strength of wo-
man."
   "Speak," she said earnestly, "if you have any
thing to say, speak fearlessly."
   The trooper averted his face as he replied -- 
"none ever receive a ball there and survive."
   "I have no dread of death, Lawton," returned
Isabella -- "I thank you for not doubting me; I
felt it from the first."
   "These are not scenes for a form like yours,"
added the trooper; " 'tis enough that Britain calls
our youth to the field, but when such loveliness
becomes the victim of war, I sicken at my trade.
   "Hear me, capt. Lawton," said Isabella, raisin
herself with difficulty, but rejecting aid; "from

-
early womanhood to the present hour have I been
an inmate of camps and garrisons. It was to
cheer the leisure of a father and brother, and
think you I would change those days of danger
and privation for all the luxurious ease of Eng-
land's palace?" The paleness of her cheek gave
place to a flush of ardor as she continued -- "No!
I have the consolation of knowing in my dying
moments, that what woman could do in such a
cause, I have done."
   "Who could prove a recreant and witness such
a spirit!" exclaimed the trooper; unconsciously
grasping the hilt of his sabre. "Hundreds of
warriors have I witnessed in their blood, but ne-
ver a firmer soul among them all."
   "Ah! 'tis the soul only," said Isabella; "my
sex and strength have forbidden me the dearest of
privileges. -- But to you, Captain Lawton, nature
has been bountiful: yours are an arm and a heart
to make the proudest of Britain's soldiers quail;
and I know that they are an arm and a heart that
will prove true to the last." -- 
   "So long as liberty calls, and Washington
points the way," returned the trooper, in the low
tone of determination, and smiling proudly.
   "I know it -- I know it -- and George -- and -- "
she paused, her lip quivered, and her eye sunk to
the floor.
   "And Dunwoodie!" echoed the trooper;
"would to God he was here to witness and ad-
mire."
   "Name him not," said Isabella, sinking back
upon the bed, and concealing her face in her
garments; "leave me, Lawton, and prepare
poor George for this unexpected blow."
   The trooper continued for a little while gazing
in melancholy interest at the convulsive shudder-
ings of her frame, which the scanty covering

-
could not conceal, and withdrew to meet his
comrade. The interview between Singleton and
his sister was painful, and for a moment Isabella
yielded to a burst of tenderness; but, as if aware
that her hours were numbered, she was the first
to rouse herself to exertion. At her earnest re-
quest the room was left to herself, the captain,
and Frances. The repeated applications of the
surgeon to be permitted to use professional aid
were steadily rejected, and, at length, he was
obliged unwillingly to retire. The rapid approach
of death gave to the countenance of Isabella a
look of more than usual wildness, her large and
dark eyes being strongly contrasted to the ashy
paleness of her cheeks. Still Frances, as she
leaned over her in sorrow, thought that the ex-
pression was changed. Much of the loftiness
that formed so marked a characteristic of her
beauty, had been succeeded by an appearance of
humility, and it was not difficult to fancy, that
with the world itself there was vanishing her
worldly pride.
