
   "Raise me," she said, "and let me look on a
face that I love, once more." Frances silently
complied, and Isabella turned her eyes in sisterly
affection upon George -- "It matters but little,
my brother -- a few hours must close the scene."
   "Live Isabella, my sister, my only sister,"
cried the youth with a burst of sorrow that he
could not control; "my father! my poor father -- "
   "Ah! there is the sting of death," said Isabel-
la shuddering; "but he is a soldier and a chris-
tian -- Miss Wharton I would speak of what inter-
ests you, while yet I have strength for the task."
   "Nay," said Frances tenderly, "compose
yourself -- let no desire to oblige me endanger a
life that is precious to -- to -- so many." The
words were nearly stifled by the emotions of the

-
maid, who had touched a chord that thrilled to
her inmost heart.
   "Poor sensitive girl," said Isabella, regarding
her with tender interest; "but the world is still
before you, and why should I disturb the little
happiness it may yet afford! -- dream on lovely in-
nocent! and may God keep the evil day of know-
ledge far distant."
   "Oh, there is even now little left for me to
enjoy," said Frances, burying her face in the
clothes; "I am heart-stricken in all that I most
loved."
   "No!" interrupted Isabella; "You have one
inducement to wish for life that pleads strongly in
a woman's breast. It is a delusion that nothing
but death can destroy -- " Exhaustion compelled
her to pause, and her auditors continued in breath-
less suspense until, recovering her strength, she
laid her hand on that of Frances, and continued
more mildly -- " Miss Wharton, if there breathes
a spirit congenial to Dunwoodie's, and worthy of
his love, it is your own."
   A flush of fire passed over the face of the list-
ener, and she raised her eyes flashing with an
ungovernable look of delight to the countenance
of Isabella; but the ruin she beheld recalled her
better feelings, and again her head dropped upon
the covering of the bed. Isabella watched her
emotions with a smile that partook both of pity
and admiration.
   "Such have been the feelings that I have es-
caped," she continued; "yes, Miss Wharton,
Dunwoodie is wholly yours."
   "Be just to yourself, my sister," exclaimed
the youth; "let no romantic generosity cause you
to forget your own character."
   She heard him, and fixed a gaze of tender in-

-
terest on his face, but slowly shook her head as
she replied -- 
   "It is not romance, but truth that bids me
speak. Oh! how much have I lived within an
hour! Miss Wharton, I was born under the burn-
ing sun of Georgia, and my feelings seem to have
imbibed its warmth -- I have existed for passion
only."
   "Say not so -- say not so, I implore you," cried
the agitated brother; "think how devoted has been
your love to our aged father -- how disinterested,
how tender your affection for me."
   "Yes," said Isabella, a smile of mild pleasure
beaming on her countenance; "that is a reflec-
tion which may be taken to the very grave."
   Neither Frances, nor her brother, interrupted
her meditations, which continued for several mi-
nutes; when, suddenly recollecting herself, she
continued -- 
   "I remain selfish even to the last; with me,
Miss Wharton, America and her liberties was my
earliest passion, and -- " again she paused, and
Frances thought it was the struggle of death that
followed; but reviving, she proceeded with a flush
on her face that exceeded the bloom of health,
"Why should I hesitate on the brink of the grave!
Dunwoodie was my next and my last. But," bu-
rying her face in her hands, "it was a love that
was unsought."
   "Isabella!" exclaimed her brother, springing
from the bed, and pacing the floor in disorder.
   "See how dependent we become under the do-
minion of worldly pride," said the dying maiden;
"it is painful to George to learn that one he loves,
had not feelings superior to her nature and educa-
tion."
   "Say no more," whispered Frances; "you dis-
tress us both -- say no more, I entreat you."

-
    
   "In justice to Dunwoodie I must speak; and
for the same reason, my brother, you must listen.
In no act or work has Dunwoodie ever induced
me to believe, he wished me more than a friend -- 
nay -- latterly, I have had the burning shame of
thinking that he avoided my presence."
   "Would he dare!" said Singleton fiercely.
   "Peace, my brother, and listen," continued
Isabella, rousing with an effort that was final;
"here is the innocent, the justifiable cause. We
are both motherless -- but that aunt -- that mild,
plain hearted, observing aunt, has given you the
victory. Oh! how much she loses, who loses a
female guardian to her youth. I have exhibited
those feelings which you have been taught to re-
press. After this, can I wish to live!"
   "Isabella! my poor Isabella! you wander in
your mind."
   "But one word more -- for I feel that blood
which ever flowed too swift, rushing where nature
never intended it to go. Woman must be sought,
to be prized -- her life is one of concealed emo-
tions; blessed are they whose early impressions
make the task free from hypocrisy, for such only
can be happy with men like -- like -- Dunwoodie;"
her voice failed and she sunk back on her pil-
low in silence. The cry of Singleton brought
the rest of the party to her bed side, but death
was already upon her countenance; her remain-
ing strength just sufficed to reach the hand of
George, and pressing it to her bosom for a mo-
ment, she relinquished her grasp, and, with a slight
convulsion, expired.
   Frances Wharton had thought that fate had
done its worst, in endangering the life of her bro-
ther, and destroying the reason of her sister, but
the relief that was conveyed by the dying decla-
ration of Isabella, taught her that another sorrow

-
had aided in loading her heart with grief. She
saw the whole truth at a glance; nor was the
manly delicacy of Dunwoodie's forbearance lost
upon her -- every thing tended to raise him in her
estimation; and for mourning that duty and pride
had induced her to strive to think less of him,
she was compelled to substitute regret that her
own act had driven him from her in sorrow, if not
in desperation. It is not the nature of youth,
however, to despair, and Frances knew a secret
joy in the midst of their distress, that gave a new
spring to her existence.
   The sun broke forth, on the morning that suc-
ceeded this night of desolation, in unclouded lus-
tre, and seemed to mock the petty sorrows of
those who received his rays. Lawton had early
ordered his steed, and was ready to mount as the
first burst of golden light broke over the hills.
His orders were already given, and the trooper
threw his leg across the saddle in silence; and,
casting a glance of fierce chagrin at the narrow
space that had favoured the flight of the Skinner,
he gave Roanoke the rein and moved slowly to-
wards the valley.
   The stillness of death pervaded the road, nor
was there a single vestige of the scenes of the
night to tarnish the loveliness of a glorious morn.
Struck with the contrast between man and nature,
the fearless trooper rode by each pass of danger,
regardless of what might happen, nor roused him-
self from his musings, until the noble charger,
proudly snuffing the morning air, greeted his com-
panions, as they stood patiently by the sides of
their masters, who composed the guard under ser-
geant Hollister.
   Here, indeed, was sad evidence to be seen of
the midnight fray, but the trooper glanced his eye
over it with the coolness of a veteran, and check-
