

-
ed his horse as he gained the spot selected by the
cautious orderly, and slightly returning his salute,
inquired -- -
   "Have you seen any thing?"
   "Nothing, sir, that we dare charge upon," re-
turned Hollister, with a little solemnity; but we
mounted once at the report of distant fire arms."
   " 'Tis well," said Lawton, gloomily. "Ah!
Hollister, I would give the animal I ride, to have
had your single arm between the wretch who drew
that triger and these useless rocks, which overhang
every bit of ground, as if they grudged pasture to
a single hoof."
   The dragoons exchanged looks of surprise, and
wondered what could have occurred to tempt
their leader to offer such a bribe.
   "Under the light of day, and charging man to
man, 'tis but little I fear," said the sergeant, with
proud resolution; "but I can't say that I'm over-
fond of fighting with them that neither steel nor
lead can bring down."
   "What mean you, silly fellow?" cried Lawton,
frowning in disdain; "none live who can with-
stand either."
   "If there was life, it would be easy to take it,"
returned the other; "but blows and powder can-
not injure him that has already been in the grave.
I like not the dark object that has been hovering
in the skirt of the wood, since the first dawn of
day; and twice during the night the same was
seen moving across the fire-light -- no doubt with
evil intent."
   "Ha!" said the trooper, "is it yon ball of black
at the foot of the rock-maple, that you mean?
By heaven! it moves."
   "Yes, and without mortal motion," said the
sergeant, regarding it with awful reverence; "it

-
glides along, but no feet have been seen by any
who watch here."
   "Had it wings," cried Lawton, "it is mine;
stand fast, until I join." The words were hardly
uttered, before Roanoke was flying across the
plain, and apparently verifying the boast of his
master.
   "Those cursed rocks!" ejaculated the trooper,
as he saw the object of his pursuit approaching
the hill-side; but either from want of practice, or
from terror, it passed the obvious shelter they of-
fered, and fled into the open plain.
   "I have you, man or devil!" shouted Lawton,
whirling his sabre from its scabbard. "Halt, and
take quarter."
   His proposition was apparently acceded to, for
at the sound of his powerful voice, the figure sunk
upon the ground, exhibiting a shapeless ball of
black, without life or motion.
   "What have we here?" cried Lawton, drawing
up by its side; "a gala suit of the good maiden,
Jeanette Peyton, wandering around its birth-place,
or searching in vain for its discomfited mistress?"
He leaned forward in his stirrups, and placing the
point of his sword under the silken garment, by
throwing aside the covering, discovered part of the
form of the reverend gentleman, who had fled from
the Locusts the evening before, in his robes of of-
fice.
   "Ah! in truth, Hollister had some ground for
his alarm; an army chaplain is at any time a ter-
ror to a troop of horse."
   The clergyman had collected enough of his dis-
turbed faculties, to discover that it was a face he
knew, and somewhat disconcerted at the terror he
had manifested, he endeavoured to rise and offer
some explanation. Lawton received his apologies
good humouredly, if not with much faith in their

-
truth; and, after a short communication upon the
state of the valley, the trooper courteously alight-
ed, and they proceeded towards the guard.
   "I am so little acquainted, sir, with the rebel
uniform, that I really was unable to distinguish
whether those men, whom you say are your own,
did or did not belong to the gang of marauders."
   "Apology, sir, is unnecessary," replied the
trooper, curling his lip; "it is not your task, as
a minister of God, to take note of the facings of
a coat. The standard under which you serve is
acknowledged by us all."
   "I serve under the standard of his gracious ma-
jesty, George III." returned the priest, wiping the
cold sweat from his brow; but really the idea of
being scalped, has a strong tendency to unman a
new beginner like myself."
   "Scalped!" echoed Lawton, a little fiercely,
and stopping short in his walk; then recollecting
himself, he added with infinite composure -- "if it
is to Dunwoodie's squadron of Virginian light dra-
goons that you allude, it may be well to inform
you, that they generally take a bit of the skull
with the skin."
   "Oh! I can have no apprehensions of gentle-
men of your appearance," said the divine with a
smirk; "it is the natives that I apprehend."
   "Natives! I have that honour, I do assure you,
sir."
   "Nay, sir, I beg that I may be understood -- I
mean the Indians -- they who do nothing but rob,
and murder, and destroy."
   "And scalp!"
   "Yes, sir, and scalp too," continued the clergy-
man, eyeing his companion a little suspiciously;
"the copper-coloured, savage Indians."
   "And did you expect to meet those nose-jew-
elled gentry in the neutral ground?"

-
    
   "Certainly," returned the chaplain, confident-
ly; "we understand in England that the interior
swarms with them."
   "And call you this the interior of America?"
cried Lawton, again halting, and staring the other
in the face, with a surprise too naturally expressed
to be counterfeited.
   "Surely, sir, I conceive myself to be in the in-
terior."
   "Attend," said Lawton, pointing towards the
east; "see you not that broad sheet of water which
the eye cannot compass in its range? thither lies
the England you deem worthy to hold dominion
over half the world. See you the land of your
nativity?"
   " 'Tis impossible to behold objects at a distance
of three thousand miles!" exclaimed the wonder-
ing priest, a little suspicious of his companion's
sanity.
   "No! what a pity it is that the powers of man
are not equal to his ambition. Now turn your
eyes westward; observe that vast expanse of wa-
ter which rolls between the shores of America and
China."
