
   "I see nothing but land," said the trembling
priest; "there is no water to be seen."
   " 'Tis impossible to behold objects at a distance
of three thousand miles!" repeated Lawton grave-
ly, and pursuing in his walk; "if it be the savages
that you apprehend, seek them in the ranks of
your prince. Rum and gold have preserved their
loyalty."
   "Nothing is more probable than my being de-
ceived," said the man of peace, casting furtive
glances at the colossal stature and whiskered front
of his companion; "but the rumours we have at
home, and the uncertainty of meeting with such
an enemy as yourself, induced me to fly at your
approach."

-
    
   " 'Twas not judiciously determined," said the
trooper, "as Roanoke has the heels of you great-
ly; and flying from Scylla, you were liable to en-
counter Charybidis. Those woods and rocks co-
ver the very enemies you dread."
   "The savages!" exclaimed the divine, instinct-
ively placing the trooper in the rear.
   "Ay! more than savages," cried Lawton, his
dark brow contracting to a look of fierceness that
was far from quieting the apprehensions of the
other. "Men, who under the guise of patriotism,
prowl through the community, with a thirst for
plunder that is unsatiable, and a love of cruelty
that mocks the Indian ferocity. Fellows, whose
mouths are filled with liberty and equality, and
whose hearts are overflowing with cupidity and
gall -- gentlemen that are y'clep'd the Skinners."
   "I have heard them mentioned in our army,"
said the frightened divine, "and had thought them
to be the Aborigines."
   "You did the savages injustice," returned the
trooper, in his naturally dry manner.
   They now approached the spot occupied by
Hollister, who witnessed with surprise the charac-
ter of the prisoner made by his captain. Lawton
gave his orders promptly, and the men immediate-
ly commenced securing and removing such arti-
cles of furniture as were thought worthy of the
trouble; and the captain, with his reverend asso-
ciate, who was admirably mounted on a mettled
horse, returned to the quarters of the troop.
   It was the wish of Singleton, that the remains
of his sister should be conveyed to the post com-
manded by his father, and preparations were early
made to this effect, as well as a messenger des-
patched with the melancholy tidings of her death.
The wounded British were placed under the con-
troul of the chaplain, and towards the middle of the

-
day, Lawton saw that all of the arrangements were
so far completed, as to render it probable, that in
a few hours, he would be left with his small party
in undisturbed possession of the corners."
   While leaning in the door-way, gazing in moody
silence at the ground on which had been the last
night's chase, his ear caught the sound of a horse
at speed, and the next moment a dragoon of his
own troop appeared dashing up the road, as if on
business of the last importance. His steed was
foaming, and the rider had the appearance of
having done a hard day's service. Without speak-
ing, he placed a letter in the hand of Lawton, and
led his charger to the stable. The trooper knew
the hand of his major, and ran his eye over the
following:
   "I rejoice it is the order of Washington, that
the family at the Locusts are to be removed above
the Highlands. They are to be admitted to the
society of Captain Wharton, who waits only for
their testimony to be tried. You will communi-
cate this order, and with proper delicacy I do not
doubt. The English are moving up the river, and
the moment that you see the Whartons in safety,
break up and join your troop. There will be good
service to be done when we meet, as Sir Henry
is reported to have sent out a real soldier in com-
mand. Reports must be made to the command-
ant at Peekskill, as Col. Singleton is withdrawn to
head-quarters to preside over the inquiry upon
poor Wharton. Fresh orders have been sent to
hang the pedlar if we can take him, but they
are not from the commander in chief. -- Detail a
small guard with the ladies, and get into the sad-
dle as soon as possible.
   Your's, sincerely,
Peyton Dunwoodie."

-
    
   This communication entirely changed the whole
arrangement. There could be no motive to con-
vey the body of Isabella to a post where her father
was not, and Singleton reluctantly acquiesced in
her immediate interment. A retired and lovely
spot was selected, near the foot of the adjacent
rocks, and such rude preparations were made as
their time and the situation of the country per-
mitted. A few of the neighbouring inhabitants
collected from curiosity and interest, and Miss
Peyton and Frances wept in sincerity over her
grave. The solemn offices of the church were
performed by the minister of God, who had so
lately stood forth to officiate in another and very
different duty; and Lawton bent down his head,
as he leaned upon his sabre, and passed his hand
across his brow, while the words were pronoun-
cing that forever shut such fervent feeling and
loveliness, from the sight of man.
   A new stimulus was given to the Whartons by
the intelligence conveyed in the letter of Dunwoo-
die, and Cæsar, with his horses, was once more
put in requisition. The relics of the property
were entrusted to a neighbour, in whom they had
confidence, and accompanied by the unconscious
Sarah, and attended by four dragoons, and all of
the American wounded, Mr. Wharton's party took
their departure. They were speedily followed by
the English chaplain, with his countrymen, who
were conveyed to the water side, where a vessel
was in waiting to receive them. Lawton joyfully
witnessed these movements, and as soon as the
latter were out of sight, he ordered his own bugle
to be sounded. Every thing was instantly in mo-
tion. The mare of Mrs. Flanagan was again fas-
tened to the cart; -- Dr. Sitgreaves exhibited his
shapeless form once more on horseback, and the

-
trooper appeared in the saddle, rejoicing in his
emancipation.
   The word to march was given; and Lawton,
throwing a look of sullen ferocity at the place of the
Skinners' concealment, and another of melancholy
regret towards the grave of Isabella, led the way,
accompanied by the surgeon, in a brown study;
while sergeant Hollister and Betty brought up the
rear, leaving a fresh southerly wind to whistle
through the open doors and broken windows of
the "Hotel Flanagan," where the laugh of hilari-
ty and the joke of the hardy partisans, had so lately
echoed in triumph.

-
Chapter 9
CHAPTER IX.
"No vernal blooms their torpid rocks array, 
But winter, lingering, chills the lap of May; 
No zephyr fondly sues the mountain's breast, 
But meteors glare, and stormy glooms invest." 
Goldsmith. 
