
    
   It was only after the establishment of their in-
dependence, that the American people seemed to
consider themselves as any thing more than so-
journers in the land of their nativity. Before
that æra, their inventions, their wealth, and their
glory centred in the isle of Britain, as unerringly
as the needle pointed to the pole. Forty years
of self-government has done for them, what a
century and a half of dependence was unable to
achieve.
   The uneven surface of West-Chester was, at
the period of which we write, intersected with
roads in every direction, it is true; but they were
of a character with the people and the times.
None of those straight, tasteless paths which,
with premeditated convenience, running directly
from one point of the country to the other,
abound in our newly settled territory, were to be
found under the ancient regime; unless in extraor-
dinary instances where a river curbed their vaga-
ries on one side, and a mountain on the other.
Instead of these direct and shortened passages,
with the few exceptions we have mentioned, the
highways uniformly discovered that classical taste

-
which is only cherished under the institutions
that partake of the poetry of life -- the two,
forming no unapt illustration of the different in-
stitutions to which we have alluded. On one
side is the result of accident and circumstances,
embellished with the graces of art, so as to ren-
der pleasing what is not always convenient; and
on the other, a straight-forward reason, that tends
directly to the object, leaving the moral of appli-
cability to atone for what it may want in beauty
and interest.
   Whatever evidence of a parallel between the
roads and the governments our ingenuity may
devise, Cæsar Thompson found in the former no-
thing but transitory pleasures and repeated dan-
gers. So long as one of those lovely valleys
which abound in the interior of the county lay
before him, all was security and ease. Follow-
ing the meanderings of the stream that invariably
wound through the bottom, the path lingered to
the last moment among the rich meadows and
pleasant pastures; or, running off at a right an-
gle. shot up the gentle ascent to the foot of the
hill that bounded the vale, and, sweeping by the
door of some retired dwelling, again sought the
rivulet and the meadow, until every beauty was
exhausted, and no spot, however secluded, had
escaped the prying curiosity of the genius of the
highway; then, as if eager to visit another place
of sylvan beauty, the road ran boldly to the base
of a barrier that would frighten a spirit less ad-
venturous, and, regardless of danger and difficul-
ties, kept its undeviating way until the summit
was gained, when, rioting for a moment in victory,
it as daringly plunged into the opposite vale, and
resumed its meandering and its sloth. In getting
over a highway of such varied characteristics,
Cæsar necessarily experienced a diversity of

-
emotions. The cumbersome chariot that he di-
rected moved at an even pace over the level
ground, and, perched on the elevated box, the
black felt no little of the dignity of his situation;
but the moment of ascension was one of intense
anxiety, and the descent -- one of terror. As
soon as the foot of a hill was discerned. Cæsar,
with a reasoning derived from the Dutch set-
tlers of the colony, commenced applying the
whip to his venerable steeds, and accompanying
the blows with a significant cry, their ambition
was roused to the undertaking. The space be-
tween them and the point of struggle was flown
over with a velocity that shook the crazy vehicle,
and excessively annoyed its occupants; but the
manoeuvre sufficed to obtain an impetus that car-
ried the steeds up the ascent one third of the way
with glory. By this time their wind was gone -- 
their strength enfeebled -- and the heaviest diffi-
culties remained to be overcome. Then, indeed,
it was often a matter of doubt which were to
prevail in the dispute -- the chariot or the horses.
But the lash and the cries of the black stimulated
the steeds to unwonted efforts, and happily they
prevailed in each of these well contested points.
Short breathing-time was allowed on gaining what
in truth might be termed the "debateable land,"
before a descent, more dangerous, if less difficult
than the ascent, was to be encountered. At
these moments Cæsar would twine the reins
round his body, in a manner of remarkable inge-
nuity, and lead them over his head in such a way,
as to make that noble member sustain the labour
of curbing his horses -- with either hand grasping
a side of his dangerous perch, and with a coun-
tenance showing a double row of ivory, and eyes
glistening like diamonds set in ebony, he aban-
doned every thing to the government of the an-

-
cient proverb of "the devil take the hindmost."
The vehicle, with the zeal of a new made con-
vert, would thrust the horses to the conclusion of
the argument, with a rapidity that was utterly
discomfiting to the philosophy of the African.
But practice makes perfect; and by the time that
evening had begun to warn the travellers of the
necessity of a halt, Cæsar was so much accus-
tomed to these critical flights, that he encoun-
tered them with incredible fortitude. We should
not have ventured thus to describe the unprece-
dented achievements of Mr. Wharton's coach-
horses on this memorable occasion, did not
numberless instances still exist of those dangerous
pinnacles -- to which we fearlessly refer as vouch-
ing for our veracity -- a circumstance the more
fortunate for us, when we consider, that in almost
every instance inviting passes are open, where
alterations might long since have been made, that
would have entirely deprived us of this indispu-
table testimony.
   While Cæsar and his steeds were thus contend-
ing with the difficulties we have recorded, the
inmates of the carriage were too much engrossed
with their own cares to attend to those who served
them. The mind of Sarah had ceased to wander
so wildly as at first; but at every advance that
she made towards reason she seemed to retire a
step from animation -- from being excited and
flighty, she was gradually becoming moody and
melancholy. There were moments indeed when
her anxious companions thought, with extacy,
that they could discern marks of recollection;
but the expression of exquisite woe that accom-
panied these transient gleams of reason, forced
them to the dreadful alternative of wishing, at
times, that she might forever be spared the agony
of thought. The day's march was performed

-
chiefly in silence, and the party found shelter for
the night in different farm-houses.
   The following morning the cavalcade dispersed.
The wounded diverged towards the river, with the
intention of taking water at Peeks-kill, and thus
be transported to the hospitals of the American
army above -- the litter of Singleton was convey-
ed to a part of the highlands where his father held
his quarters, and where it was intended that the
youth should complete his cure -- the carriage of
Mr. Wharton, accompanied by a wagon, con-
veying the housekeeper and what baggage had
been saved and could be transported, resumed
its route towards the place where Henry Whar-
ton was held in duresse, and where he only waited
their arrival to be put upon trial for his life.
   The country which lies between the waters of
the Hudson and Long-Island Sound, is, for the
the first forty miles from their junction, a succes-
sion of hills and dales. The land bordering on
the latter then becomes less abrupt, and gradual-
ly assumes a milder appearance, until it finally
melts into the lovely plains and meadows of the
Connecticut. But as you approach the Hudson
the rugged aspect increases, until you at length
meet with the formidable barrier of the High-
lands. It was here the Neutral Ground ceased.
The royal army held the two points of land that
commanded the Southern entrance of the river
into the the mountains; but all of the remaining
passes were guarded by the Americans.
   We have already stated that the picquets of
the Continental army were sometimes pushed
low into the country, and that the hamlet of the
White Plains was occasionally maintained by par-
ties of troops. At other times, their advanced
guards were withdrawn to the Northern extremity
of the county, and the intermediate country

-
abandoned entirely to the ravages of the mis-
creants who plundered between both armies,
serving neither.
   The road taken by our party was not the one
that communicates between the two principal
cities of the state, but was a retired and unfre-
quented pass, that to this hour is but little known,
and which, entering the hills near the eastern
boundary, emerges into the plain above, many
miles from the Hudson.
   It would have been impossible for the tired
steeds of Mr. Wharton to drag the heavy chariot
up the lengthened and steep ascents which now
lay before them, and a pair of country horses were
procured, with but little regard to their owner's
wishes, by the two dragoons who still continued
to accompany the party. With their assistance,
Cæsar was enabled to advance by slow and toil-
some steps into the bosom of the hills. Willing
to relieve her own melancholy by breathing a
fresher air, and also to lessen the weight, Fran-
ces alighted, as they reached the foot of a mountain
and found that Katy had made similar prepara-
tions, with the like intention of walking to the
summit. It was near the setting of the sun, and
from the top of the mountain their guard had de-
clared, that the desired end of their journey
might be discerned. The maid moved forward
with the elastic step of youth, and followed by
the housekeeper at a little distance, they soon
lost sight of the sluggish carriage, that was slowly
toiling up the hill, occasionally halting to allow
the animals that drew it to breathe.
   "Oh, Miss Fanny, what dreadful times these
be," said Katy, when they paused for breath
themselves; "but I know'd that calamity was
about to befall, ever sin the streak of blood was
seen in the clouds."

-
