
    
   "There has been blood upon earth, Katy,"
returned the shuddering Frances, "though but
little I imagine is ever seen in the clouds."
   "Not blood in the clouds!" echoed the house-
keeper; "yes, that there has, often -- and comets
with fiery smoking tails -- Didn't people see armed
men in the heavens the year the war begun? and
the night before the battle of the Plains, wasn't
there thunder just like the cannon themselves? -- 
Ah! Miss Fanny, I'm fearful that no good can
follow rebellion against the Lord's anointed."
   "These events are certainly dreadful," re-
turned the maid, "and enough to sicken the
stoutest heart -- But what can be done, Katy? -- 
Gallant and independent men are unwilling to
submit to oppression; and I am fearful that such
scenes are but too common in war."
   "If I could but see any thing to fight about," said
Katy, renewing her walk as the young lady pro-
ceeded, "I shouldn't mind it so much -- 'twas said
the king wanted all the tea for his own family, at
one time; and then agin, that he meant the colo-
nies should pay over to him all their arnins. -- 
Now this is matter enough to fight about -- for I'm
sure that no one, howsomever he may be a lord
or a king, has a right to the hard arnins of an-
other. -- Then it was all contradicted, and some
said Washington wanted to be king himself, so
that between the two one doesn't know which to
believe."
   "Believe neither -- for neither are true. I do
not pretend to understand, myself, all the merits
of this war, Katy," said Frances pausing, and
blushing with the consciousness of whence it was
that she had derived her opinions; "but to me it
seems unnatural, that a country like this should be
ruled by another so distant as England."
   "So I have heard Harvey say to his father that

-
is dead and in his grave," returned Katy, ap-
proaching nearer to the young lady, and lowering
her voice. -- "Many is the good time that I've
listened to them talking, when all the neighbours
were asleep; and sich conversations, Miss Fanny,
that you can have no idee on. -- Well, to say the
truth, Harvey was a mystified body, and he was
like the winds in the good book -- no one could tell
whence he came or whither he went."
   Frances glanced her eye at her companion with
an interest altogether new to her, and with an ap-
parent desire to hear more, observed -- 
   "There are rumours abroad relative to the cha-
racter of Harvey, that I should be sorry were
true."
   "'Tis a disparagement every word on't," cried
Katy, vehemently; "Harvey had no more deal-
ings with Belzebub than you nor I had. I'm sure
if Harvey had sold himself, he would take care
to be better paid; though, to speak the truth, he
was always a wasteful and disregardful man."
   "Nay, nay," returned the smiling Frances -- 
"I have no such injurious suspicion of him; but
has he not sold himself to an earthly prince, one
good and amiable I allow, but too much attached
to the interests of his native island to be always
just to this country?"
   "To the king's majesty!" replied Katy. "Why,
Miss Fanny, your own brother that is in gaol,
serves king George."
   "True," said Frances, "but not in secret -- 
openly, manfully, and bravely."
   "'Tis said he is a spy, and why a'n't one spy as
bad as another."
   "'Tis false," exclaimed Frances, her eyes light-
ing with extraordinary animation, and the colour
rushing to her face, until even her fine forehead
glowed with fire; "no act of deception is worthy

-
of my brother, nor of any would he be guilty, for
so base a purpose as gain or promotion."
   "Well, I'm sure," said Katy, a little appalled at
the manner of the young lady, "if a body does the
work, he should be pain for it. Harvey is by no
means partic'lar about getting his lawful dues, and
I dar'st to say, if the truth was forthcoming, king
George owes him money this very minute."
   "Then you acknowledge his connexion with the
British army," said Frances; "I confess there
have been moments when I have thought differ-
ently."
   "Lord, Miss Fanny, Harvey is a man that no
calculation can be made on. Though I lived in his
house for a long concourse of years, I have never
known whether he belonged above or below. The
time that Burg'yne was taken, he came home, and
there was great doings between him and the old
gentleman, but for the life I couldn't tell if'twas
joy or grief. Then, here, the other day, when the
great British general -- I'm sure I have been so
flurried with losses and troubles, that I forget his
name -- "
   "André," said Frances, in a melancholy tone.
   "Yes, Ondree; when he was hung acrost the
Tappaan, the old gentleman was near hand to
going crazy about it. and didn't sleep for night
nor day till Harvey got back; and then his money
was mostly golden guineas; but the skinners took
it all, and now he is a beggar, or what's the same
thing, dispiscable for poverty and want.
   To this speech Frances made no reply, but con-
tinued her walk up the hill, deeply engaged in her
own reflections. The allusions to André had
recalled her thoughts to the situation of her own
brother. Hope is a powerful stimulus to enjoy-
ment and though arising from a single cause, sel-
dom fails to mingle with every emotion of the heart.

-
The dying declarations of Isabella had left an im-
pression on the mind of Frances that influenced
her whole deportment. She looked forward with
confidence to the restoration of Sarah's intellect,
and even now, as she mused on the condition of
Henry, there was a secret presentiment of his ac-
quittal that pervaded her thoughts, which sprang
from the buoyancy of youth, but for which she
would have been at a loss to account.
   They now reached the highest point in their
toilsome progress to the summit, and Frances
seated herself on a rock to rest and to admire,
Immediately at her feet lay a deep dell, but little
altered by cultivation, and dark with the gloom of
a November sun-set. Another hill rose opposite
to where she sat, at no great distance, along whose
rugged sides nothing was to be seen but shapeless
rocks, and oaks whose stinted growth proved the
absence of soil.
   To be seen in their perfection, the Highlands
must be passed immediately after the fall of the
leaf. The picture is then in its chastest keeping,
for neither the scanty foliage which the summer
lends the trees, nor the snows of winter, are pre-
sent to conceal the minutest objects from the eye.
Chilling solitude is the characteristic of the scene-
ry, nor is the mind at liberty, as in March, to look
forward to a renewed vegetation that is soon to
check, without improving the view.
   The day had been cloudy and cool, and thin
fleecy clouds hung around the horizon, often pro-
mising to disperse, but as frequently disappoint-
ing the maid of a parting beam from the setting
sun. At length a solitary gleam of light struck
on the base of the mountain on which she was
gazing, and moved gracefully up its side, until
reaching the summit, it stood for a minute, form-
ing a crown of glory to the sombre pile be-

-
neath. So strong were the rays, that what was
before indistinct, now clearly opened to the
view. With a feeling of awe at being thus un-
expectedly admitted, as it were, into the secrets
of that desart place, the maid gazed intently,
until among the scattered trees and fantastic rocks,
something like a rude structure was seen. It
was low, and so obscured by the colour of its ma-
terials, that but for its roof, and the glittering
of a window, must have escaped her notice. -- 
While yet lost in the astonishment created by dis-
covering a habitation for man in such a spot, Fran-
ces, on moving her eyes, perceived another object
that increased her wonder. It apparently was a
human figure, but of singular mould and unusual
deformity. It stood on the edge of a rock, but a lit-
tle above the hut, and it was no difficult task for our
heroine to fancy it was gazing at the vehicles that
were ascending the side of the mountain beneath
her. The distance, however, was too great for
her to distinguish with precision. After looking
at it a moment in breathless wonder, Frances
had just come to the conclusion that it was ideal,
and that what she saw was part of the rock itself,
when the object moved swiftly from its position,
and glided into the hut, at once removing any doubts
as to the nature of either. Whether it was owing
to the recent conversation that she had been
holding with Katy, or some fancied resemblance
that she discerned, Frances thought, as the figure
vanished from her view, that it bore a marked
likeness to Birch, moving under the weight of his
pack. She continued to gaze in breathless silence
towards the mysterious residence, when the
gleam of light passed away, and at the same
instant the tones of a bugle rang through the glens
and hollows, and were re-echoed in every direc-
tion. Springing on her feet in alarm, the maid
