
devious route to the hill side. For an instant, as
Lawton mentioned the Skinners, she had paused,
but immediately resumed her course, and was
soon out of sight among the trees.
   On entering his quarters, the sentinel at the
door inquired if he had met Mrs. Flannagan -- and
told his captain she had passed there, filling the
air with threats against her tormentors at the
"Hotel," and inquiring for the captain in search
of redress. Lawton heard the man in astonish-
ment -- appeared struck with a new idea -- walked
several yards towards the orchard, and returned
again; for several minutes he paced rapidly to
and fro before the door of the house, and then
hastily entered it, threw himself on a bed in his
clothes, and was soon in a profound sleep.
   In the mean time the gang of marauders had
successfully gained the summit of the rocks, and
scattering in every direction buried themselves in
the depths of the wood. Finding, however, they
were unpursued, a thing which was impracticable
for horse, the leader ventured to call his band to-
gether with a whistle, and in a short time succeed-
ed in collecting his discomfited party at a point
where they had but little to apprehend from this
new enemy.
   "Well," said one of the fellows, while a fire
was lighting to protect them against the air, which
was becoming severely cold, "there is an end to
our business in West-Chester. The Virginia
horse will soon make the county too hot to hold
us."
   "I'll have his blood," muttered the leader,
"if I die for it the next instant."
   "Oh, you are very valiant here in the wood,"
cried the other with a savage laugh; "why did
you, who boast so much of your aim, miss your
man just now, at thirty yards?"

-
    
   " 'Twas the horseman that disturbed me, or I
would have ended this Captain Lawton on the
spot -- besides, the cold had set me a shivering,
and I had no longer a steady hand."
   "Say it was fear, and you will tell no lie," said
his comrade, with a sneer. "For my part, I think
I shall never be cold again -- my back burns as if
a thousand gridirons were laid on it, and that not
very gently."
   "And you would tamely submit to such usage,
and kiss the rod that beat you?"
   "As for kissing the rod, it would be no easy
matter I'm thinking," returned the other. "Yes,
mine was broke into such small pieces on my own
shoulders, that it would be difficult to find one big
enough to kiss; but I would rather submit to
losing half my skin, than to losing the whole of it,
with my ears in the bargain. And such will be
our fates if we tempt this mad Virginian again. -- 
God willing, I would at any time give him enough
of my hide to make a pair of Jack books, to get
out of his hands with the remainder. If you had
known when you were well off, you would have
stuck to Major Dunwoodie, who don't know half
so much of our evil-doings."
   "Silence, you talking fool," shouted the en-
raged leader; "your prating nonsense is sufficient
to drive a man mad -- is it not enough to be robbed
and beaten, but we must be tormented with your
folly -- help to get out the provisions, if any is left
in the wallet, and try and stop your mouth with
food."
   This injunction was obeyed, and the whole par-
ty, amidst sundry groans and contortions, excited
by the disordered state of their backs, made their
arrangements for a scanty meal. -- A large fire of
dry wood was burning in the cleft of a rock, and at
length they began to recover in some measure

-
from the confusion of their flight, and collect their
scattered senses. Their hunger appeased, and
many of their garments thrown aside for the bet-
ter opportunity of dressing their wounds, the gang
began to plot measures of revenge. -- An hour was
spent in this manner, and various expedients were
proposed, but as they all depended a good deal on
personal prowess for their success, and were at-
tended by great danger, they were of course
rejected. There was no possibility of approach-
ing the troops by surprise, their vigilance being
ever on the watch; and the hope of meeting
Captain Lawton away from his men was equally
forlorn, for the trooper was constantly engaged in
his duty, and his movements were so rapid, that
any opportunity of meeting with him at all
must depend greatly on accident. Besides, it was
by no means certain, that such an interview would
result happily for themselves. The cunning of
the trooper was notorious, and rough and broken
as was West-Chester, the fearless partisan was
known to take desperate leaps, and stone walls
were but slight impediments before the charges of
the Southern horse. Gradually, the conversation
took another direction, until the gang determined
on a plan which should both revenge-themselves,
and at the same time offer some additional stimu-
lus to their exertions. The whole business was
accurately discussed, the time fixed, and the man-
ner adopted -- in short, nothing was wanting to the
previous arrangement for this deed of villainy,
when they were aroused by a voice calling
aloud -- 
   "This way Captain Jack -- here are the rascals
ating by a fire -- this way, and murder the thieves
where they sit -- quick, lave your horses and shoot
your pistols."
   This terrific summons was enough to disturb

-
the philosophy of the gang entirely, and springing
on their feet, they rushed deeper into the wood,
and having already agreed upon a place of ren-
dezvous previously to their intended expedition,
they dispersed towards the four quarters of the
heavens -- certain sounds and different voices were
heard calling to each other, but as the marauders
were well trained to speed of foot, they were soon
lost in the distance.
   It was not long before Betty Flannagan emerged
from the darkness, and very coolly took possession
of what the Skinners had left in their flight -- these
were food, and divers articles of dress. The
washerwoman deliberately seated herself, and
made a meal with great apparent satisfaction; for
an hour she sat with her head upon her hand in
deep musing, then gathered together such articles
of the clothes as seemed to suit her fancy, and
retired into the wood by herself; leaving the fire
to throw its glimmering light on the adjacent
rocks, until its last brand died away, and the place
was abandoned to solitude and darkness.

-
Chapter 3
CHAPTER III.
"Thou rising sun, whose glandsome ray, 
Invites my fair to rural play, 
Dispel the mist, and clear the skies, 
And bring my Orra to my eyes. 
"No longer then perplex thy breast, 
When thoughts torment, the first are best; 
Tis mad to go, 'tis death to stay, 
Away, to Orra, haste away." 
Lapland Love Song. 
    
   While his comrades where sleeping, in perfect
forgetfulness of their hardships and dangers, the
slumbers of Dunwoodie were broken and unquiet.
After spending a night of restlessness, he arose
unrefreshed from the rude bed where he had
thrown himself in his clothes, and without awaking
any of the group around him, wandered into the
open air in search of relief. The soft rays of the
moon were just passing away in the more distinct
light of the morning; the wind had fallen, and the
rising mists gave the promise of another of those
autumnal days, which, in this unstable climate,
succeed a tempest with the rapid transition of
magic. The hour had not arrived when he in-
tended moving from his present position; and
willing to allow his warriors all the refreshment
that circumstances would permit, he strolled to-
wards the scene of the Skinners' punishment, mu-
sing upon the embarrassments of his situation,
and uncertain how he should reconcile his sense
of manly delicacy to his love. -- Added to this di-
lemma, was the dangerous situation of Henry
Wharton. Although Dunwoodie himself placed
the most implicit reliance on the captain's purity

