

-
heard the trampling of horses, and directly a party,
in the well known uniform of the Virginians, came
sweeping around a point of rock near her, and
drew up at a short distance from where she stood.
Again the bugle sounded a lively strain, and before
the agitated girl had time to rally her thoughts,
Dunwoodie dashed by the party of dragoons, threw
himself from his charger, and advanced to the side
of his mistress.
   His manner was earnest and interested, but in a
slight degree constrained. In a few words he ex-
plained to Frances, that he had been ordered up,
with a party of Lawton's men, in the absence of the
captain himself, to attend the trial of Henry, which
was fixed for the morrow, and that anxious for their
safety in the rude passes of the mountain, he had rid-
den a mile or two in quest of the travellers. Fran-
ces explained, with blushing cheeks and trembling
voice, the reason of her being in advance, and
taught him to expect the arrival of her father mo-
mentarily. The constraint of his manner had,
however, unwillingly on her part, communicated
itself to her own deportment, and the approach of
the chariot was a relief to both. The major
handed her in, spoke a few words of encourage-
ment to Mr. Wharton and Miss Peyton, and again
mounting, led the way towards the plains of Fish-
kill, which broke on their sight on turning the
rock, with the effect of enchantment. A short half
hour brought them to the door of the farm-house,
where the care of Dunwoodie had already pre-
pared for their reception, and where Captain
Wharton was anxiously expecting their arrival.

-
Chapter 10
CHAPTER X.
"These limbs are strengthen'd with a soldier's toil, 
Nor has this cheek been ever blanch'd with fear -- 
But this sad tale of thine, enervates all 
Within me, that I once could boast as man -- 
Chill, trembling agues seize upon my frame, 
And tears of childish sorrow pour apace 
Through scarred channels, that were mark'd by wounds." 
Duo. 
    
   The friends of Henry Wharton, had placed so
much reliance on his innocence, that they were
unable to see the full danger of his situation. As
the moment of trail, however, approached, the un-
easiness of the youth himself increased; and
after spending most of the night with his afflicted
family, he awoke, on the following morning, from a
short and disturbed slumber, to a clearer sense of
his condition, and a survey of the means that were
to extricate him from it with life. The rank of
André, and the importance of the measures he
was plotting, together with the powerful interces-
sions that had been made on his behalf, occasion-
ed his execution to be stamped with greater noto-
riety than the ordinary events of the war. But
spies were frequently arrested, and the instances
that occurred of summary punishment for this
crime, were numberless. These were facts that
were well known to both Dunwoodie and the pri-
soner; and to their experienced judgments the pre-
parations for the trial were indeed alarming. Not-

-
withstanding their apprehensions, they succceded
so far in concealing them, that neither Miss Peyton,
nor Frances, was aware of their extent. A strong
guard was stationed in the out-buildings of the
farm-house where the prisoner was quartered, and
several sentinels watched the avenues that ap-
proached the dwelling -- one was constantly near
the room of the British officer. A court was al-
ready detailed to examine into the circumstances,
and upon their decision the fate of Henry rested.
   The moment at length arrived, and the different
actors in the approaching investigation assembled.
Frances experienced a feeling like suffocation,
as, after taking her seat in the midst of her family,
her eyes wandered over the groupe who were thus
collected. The judges, three in number, sat by
themselves, clad in the martial vestments of their
profession, and maintained a gravity worthy of the
occasion, and becoming in their rank. In the
centre was a man of advanced years, but whose
person continued rigidly erect, and whose whole
exterior bore the stamp of early and long-tried
military habits. This was the president of the
court, and Frances, after taking a hasty and un-
satisfactory view of his associates, turned to his
benevolent countenance, as the harbinger of mer-
cy to her brother. There was a melting and sub-
dued expression in the features of the veteran,
that, contrasted with the rigid decency and com-
posure of the others, could not fail to attract no-
tice. His attire was strictly in conformity to the
prescribed rules of the service to which he be-
longed; but his fingers trifled, with a kind of con-
vulsive and unconscious motion, with the crape
that entwined the hilt of the sword on which his
body partly reclined, and which, like himself,
seemed a relic of older times. There were the
workings of an unquiet soul within; but his com-

-
manding and martial front blended awe with the
pity that its exhibition excited. His associates
were officers selected from the eastern troops who
held the fortresses of West-Point and the adjacent
passes -- they were men who had attained the me-
ridian of life, and the eye sought in vain the ex-
pression of any passion or emotion, on which it
might seize as an indication of human infirmity.
There was a mild, but a grave intellectual reserve.
If there was no ferocity or harshness to chill,
neither was there compassion or interest to at-
tract. They were men who had long acted under
the dominion of a prudent reason, and whose feel-
ings seemed trained to a perfect submission to
their judgments.
   Before these arbiters of his fate Henry Whar-
ton was ushered, under the custody of two armed
men. A profound and awful silence succeeded
his entrance, and the blood of Frances chilled
in her veins. There was but little of pomp in
the preparations to impress her imagination,
but the reserved, business-like air of the whole
scene seemed indeed as if the destinies of life
awaited on the judgment of these men. Two of the
judges sat in grave reserve, fixing their inquiring
eyes on the subject of their investigation; but the
president continued gazing around in uneasy con-
vulsive motions of the muscles of the face, that
indicated a restlessness foreign to his years and
duty. -- It was Colonel Singleton, who, but the day
before, had learnt the fate of Isabella, but who
proudly stood forth in the discharge of a duty
that his country required at his hands. The silence
and the expectation in every eye, at length struck
him, and, making an effort to collect himself, he
spoke in the deep tones of one used to authority -- 
   "Bring forth the prisoner."

-
    
   The sentinels dropped their bayonet points to-
wards the judges, and Henry Wharton advanced
with a firm step into the centre of the apartment.
All was now anxiety and eager curiosity. Fran-
ces turned for a moment, in grateful emotion, as
the deep and perturbed breathing of Dunwoodie
reached her ear; but her brother again concen-
trated all her interest into one feeling of intense
care. In the back ground were arranged the in-
mates of the family who owned the dwelling, and
behind them again was a row of shining faces of
ebony, glistening with pleased wonder at the
scene. Amongst these was the faded lustre of
Cæsar Thompson's countenance.
   "You are said," continued the president, "to
be Henry Wharton, a Captain in his Britannic Ma-
jesty's 60th regiment of foot."
   "I am."
   "I like your candour, sir; it partakes of the
honourable feelings of a soldier, and cannot fail to
impress your judges favourably."
   "It would be prudent," said one of his com-
panions, "to advise the prisoner that he is bound
to answer no more than he deems necessary; al-
though we are a court of martial law, yet, in this
respect, we own the principles of all free govern-
ments."
   A nod of approbation, from the silent member,
was bestowed on this remark, and the president
proceeded with caution -- referring to the minutes
he held in his hand.
   "It is in accusation against you, that, being an
officer of the enemy, on the 29th of October last,
you passed the picquets of the American army at
the White Plains, in disguise, whereby you are sus-
pected of views hostile to the interests of Ame-
rica; and have subjected yourself to the punish-
ment of a Spy."
