

-
    
   The mild but steady tones of the speaker's
voice, as he slowly repeated the substance of this
charge, sunk to the hearts of many of the listen-
ers. The accusation was so plain, the facts so
limited, the proof so obvious, and the penalty so
well established, that escape at once seemed im-
possible. But Henry replied, with earnest grace -- 
   "That I passed your picquets, in disguise, is
true, but" -- 
   "Peace," interrupted the president; "the usa-
ges of war are stern enough, in themselves; you
need not aid them to your own condemnation."
   "The prisoner can retract that declaration, if
he pleases," remarked another judge. "His con-
fession, which must be taken, goes fully to prove
the charge."
   "I retract nothing that is true," said Henry,
proudly.
   The two nameless judges heard him in silent
composure, yet there was no exultation mingled
with their gravity. The president now appeared,
however, to take new interest in the scene; and,
with an animation unlooked for in his years, he
cried -- 
   "Your sentiment is noble, sir. I only regret
that a youthful soldier should so far be misled by
loyalty, as to lend himself to the purposes of de-
ceit."
   "Deceit!" echoed Wharton; "I thought it pru-
dent to guard against capture from my enemies."
   "A soldier, Captain Wharton," exclaimed the
veteran, in proud exultation, "should never meet
his enemy but openly and with arms in his hands.
For fifty years have I served two kings of Eng-
land, and now my native land; but never did I
approach a foe, unless under the light of the sun,
and with honest notice that an enemy was nigh."
   "You are at liberty to explain what your mo-

-
tives were, in entering the ground held by our ar-
my, in disguise;" said the other judge, with a
slight movement of the muscles of his mouth.
   "I am the son of this aged man, before you,"
continued Henry. "It was to visit him that I en-
countered the danger. Besides, the country be-
low is seldom held by your troops, and its very
name implies a right to either party to move at
pleasure over its territory."
   "Its name, as a neutral ground, is unauthorised
by law; and is an appellation that originates with
the condition of the country. But wherever an
army goes, it carries its rights along, and the first
is, the ability to protect itself."
   "I am no casuist, sir," returned the youth, ear-
nestly; "but I feel that my father is entitled to
my affection, and would encounter greater risks to
prove it to him, in his old age."
   "A very commendable spirit," cried the vete-
ran; "come, gentlemen, this business brightens.
I confess, at first, it was very bad; but no man
can censure him for desiring to see his parent."
   "And have you proof that such only was your
intention?"
   "Yes -- here," said Henry, admitting a ray of
hope; "here is proof -- my father, my sister, Ma-
jor Dunwoodie, all know it."
   "Then, indeed," returned his immoveable
judge, "we may be able to save you. It would
be well, sir, to examine further into this business."
   "Certainly," said the president with alacrity;
"let the elder Mr. Wharton approach and take
the oath."
   The father made an effort at composure, and
advancing with a feeble step, complied with the
necessary forms of the court.
   "You are the father of the prisoner?" said
Colonel Singleton, in a subdued voice, after paus-

-
ing a moment in respect to the agitation of the
witness.
   "He is my only son."
   "And what, sir, do you know of his visit to your
house, on the 29th day of October last?"
   "He came, as he told you, sir, to see me and
his sisters."
   "Was he in disguise?" asked the other judge.
   "He did not wear the uniform of the 60th."
   "To see his sisters too!" said the president,
with great emotion. "Have you daughters, sir?"
   "I have two -- both are in this house."
   "Had he a wig?" continued the officer.
   "There was some such thing, I do believe, up-
on his head."
   "And how long had you been separated?" ask-
ed the president.
   "One year and two months."
   "Did he wear a loose great coat of coarse ma-
terials?" inquired the officer, referring to the pa-
per that contained the charges.
   "There was an over-coat."
   "And you think that it was to see you, only,
that he came out?"
   "And my daughters."
   "A boy of spirit," whispered the president to
his silent comrade. "I see but little harm in such
a freak -- 'twas imprudent, but then it was kind."
   "Do you know that your son was entrusted
with no commission from Sir Henry Clinton, and
that the visit to you was not merely a cloak to
other designs."
   "How can I know it?" said Mr. Wharton, in
alarm; "would Sir Henry entrust me with such a
business?"
   "Know you any thing of this pass?" exhibit-
ing the paper that Dunwoodie had retained when
Wharton was taken.

