
-
    
   "Nothing -- upon my honour, nothing," cried
the father, shrinking from the paper as from con-
tagion.
   "But, on your oath?"
   "Nothing."
   "Have you other testimony; this does not
avail you. Captain Wharton. You have been
taken in a situation where your life is forfeited -- 
the labour of proving your innocence rests with
yourself; take time to reflect, and be cool."
   There was a frightful calmness in the manner of
this judge that appalled the prisoner. In the
sympathy of Colonel Singleton, he could easily
lose sight of his danger; but the obdurate and
collected air of the others, was ominous of his
fate. He continued silent, casting expressive
glances towards his friend. Dunwoodie under-
stood the appeal, and offered himself as a witness.
He was sworn and desired to relate what he knew.
His statement did not materially alter the case, and
Dunwoodie felt that it could not. To him per-
sonally but little was known, and that little rather
militated against the safety of Henry than other-
wise. His account was listened to in silence, and
the significant shake of the head that was made by
the silent member, spoke too plainly what effect it
had produced.
   "Still you think that the prisoner had no other
object than what he has avowed," said the presi-
dent, when he had ended.
   "None other, I will pledge my life," cried the
Major, with fervour.
   "Will you swear it," asked the immoveable
judge.
   "How can I? God alone can tell the heart;
but I have known this gentleman from a boy; de-
ceit never formed part of his character. He is
above it."

-
    
   "You say that he escaped, and was retaken in
open arms," said the president.
   "He was; nay, he received a wound in the com-
bat. You see he yet moves his arms with diffi-
culty. Would he, think you, sir, have tru ted
himself where he could fall again into our hands,
unless conscious of his innocence?"
   "Would André have deserted a field of battle,
Major Dunwoodie, had he encountered such an
event near Tarry-town?" asked his deliberate ex-
aminer. "Is it not natural to youth to seek glory?"
   "Do you call this glory?" exclaimed the Major,
"an ignominious death, and a tarnished name."
   "Major Dunwoodie," returned the other, still
with inveterate gravity, "you have acted nobly;
your duty has been arduous and severe, but it has
been faithfully and honourably discharged -- our's
must not be less so."
   During this examination, the most intense inter-
est prevailed amongst the hearers. With that
kind of feeling which could not separate the prin-
ciple from the cause, most of the auditors thought
that if Dunwoodie failed to move the hearts of
Henry's judges, no other possessed the power.
Cæsar thrust his mishapen form forward; and
his features, so expressive of the concern he felt,
and so different from the vacant curiosity pictured
in the countenances of the other blacks, caught
the attention of the silent judge. For the first
time he spoke -- 
   "Let that black be brought forward."
   It was too late to retreat, and Cæsar found him-
self confronted with a row of the rebel officers,
before he knew what was uppermost in his
thoughts. The others yielded the examination to
the one who suggested it, and using all due delibe-
ration, he proceeded accordingly -- 
   "You know the prisoner?"

-
    
   "I tink I ought," returned the black, in a man-
ner as sententious as his examiner's.
   "Did he give you the wig, when he threw it
aside?"
   "I don't want' em," grumbled Cæsar; "got a
berry good hair he'self."
   "Were you employed in carrying any letters or
messages, while Captain Wharton was in your
master's house?"
   "I do what a' tell me," returned the black.
   "But what did they tell you to do?"
   "Sometime a one ting -- sometime anoder."
   "Enough," said Colonel Singleton, with dignity;
"you have the noble acknowledgment of a gen-
tleman, what more can you obtain from this
slave? Captain Wharton, you perceive the un-
fortunate impression against you? Have you other
testimony to adduce?"
   To Henry, there now remained but little hope;
his confidence in his security was fast ebbing, but
with an indefinite expectation of assistance from
the loveliness of his sister, he fixed an earnest
gaze on the pallid features of Frances. She arose,
and with a tottering step moved towards the judg-
es; the paleness of her cheek continued but for
a moment, and gave place to a flush of fire,
and with a light but firm tread, she stood be-
fore them. Raising her hand to her polished
forehead, Frances threw aside her exuberant
locks, and displayed a beauty and innocence
to their view, that was unrivalled. The president
shrouded his eyes for a moment, as if the wildly
expressive eye and speaking countenance recalled
the image of another. The movement was tran-
sient, and recovering himself proudly, he said,
with an earnestness that betrayed his secret
wishes -- 

-
    
   "To you, then, your brother communicated his
intention of paying your family a secret visit?"
   "No! -- no!" said Frances, pressing her hand
on her brain, as if to collect her thoughts; "he
told me nothing -- we knew not of the visit until
he arrived; but can it be necessary to explain to
gallant men, that a child would incur hazard to
meet his only parent, and that in times like these,
and in a situation like ours."
   "But was this the first time? Did he never even
talk of doing so before?" inquired the Colonel,
leaning towards her with paternal interest.
