
   "Certainly -- certainly," cried Frances, catch-
ing the expression of his own benevolent counte-
nance. This is but the fourth of his visits."
   "I knew it!" exclaimed the veteran, rubbing
his hands with delight; "an adventurous, warm-
hearted son -- I warrant me, gentlemen, a fiery
soldier in the field. In what disguises did he
come?"
   "In none, for none were then necessary; the
royal troops covered the country, and gave him
safe passage."
   "And was this the first of his visits, out of the
uniform of his regiment?" asked the Colonel in a
suppressed voice, avoiding the looks of his com-
panions.
   "Oh! the very first," exclaimed the eager girl;
"his first offence, I do assure you, if offence it
be."
   "But you wrote him -- you urged the visit;
surely, young lady, you wished to see your bro-
ther?" added the impatient Colonel.
   "That we wished it, and prayed for it, oh! how
fervently we prayed for it, is true; but to have
held communion with the royal army, would have
endangered our father, and we dare not."

-
    
   "Did he leave the house until taken, or had he
intercourse with any out of your own dwelling?"
   "With none -- not one, excepting our neigh-
bour, the pedlar Birch."
   "With whom?" exclaimed the Colonel, turning
pale, and shrinking as from the sting of an adder.
   Dunwoodie groaned aloud, and striking his head
with his hand, cried in piercing tones, "He is lost!"
and rushed from the apartment.
   "But Harvey Birch," repeated Frances, gazing
wildly at the door through which her lover had
disappeared.
   "Harvey Birch!" echoed all the judges. The
two immoveable members of the court exchanged
significant looks, and threw many an inquisitive
glance at their prisoner.
   "To you, gentlemen, it can be no new intelli-
gence to hear that Harvey Birch is suspected of
favouring the royal cause," said Henry, again ad-
vancing before his judges; "for he has already
been condemned by your tribunals to the fate that
I now see awaits myself. I will, therefore, ex-
plain, that it was by his assistance that I procured
the disguise, and passed your picquets; but, to my
dying moment, and with my dying breath, I will
avow, that my intentions were as pure as the in-
nocent being before you."
   "Captain Wharton," said the president solemn-
ly, "the enemies of American liberty have made
mighty and subtle efforts to overthrow our power.
A more dangerous man for his means and educa-
tion, is not ranked among our foes, than this ped-
lar of West-Chester. He is a spy -- artful -- delu-
sive and penetrating, beyond the abilities of any
of his class. Sir Henry could not do better than
to associate him with the officer in his next at-
tempt. -- He would have saved him Andre. In-

-
deed, young man, this is a connexion that may
prove fatal to you."
   The honest indignation that beamed on the
countenance of the aged warrior as he spoke, was
met by a satisfied look of perfect conviction on
the part of his comrades.
   "I have ruined him!" cried Frances, clasping
her hands in terror; "do you desert us? then he
is lost indeed."
   "Forbear! -- lovely innocent -- forbear!" cried
the Colonel, with strong emotion; "you injure
none, but distress us all."
   "Is it then such a crime to possess natural af-
fection?" said Frances wildly; "would Washing-
ton -- the noble -- -- upright -- -- impartial Washington,
judge so harshly? delay but till Washington can
hear his tale."
   "It is impossible," said the president, covering
his eyes, as if to hide her beauty from his view.
   "Impossible! oh! but for a week suspend your
judgment. -- -On my knees I entreat you; as you
will expect mercy yourself, where no human pow-
er can avail you, give him but a day."
   "It is impossible," repeated the Colonel, in a
voice that was nearly choked; "our orders are
peremptory, and too long delay has been given al-
ready."
   He turned from the kneeling suppliant, but could
not, or would not, extricate the hand that she
grasped with frenzied fervour.
   "Remand your prisoner," said one of the judg-
es, to the officer who was in charge of Henry.
"Colonel Singleton. shall we withdraw?"
   "Singleton! Singleton!" echoed Frances, "then
you are a father, and know how to pity a father's
woes; you cannot, will not, wound a heart that is
now nearly crushed. Hear me, Colonel Single-

-
ton; as God will listen to your dying prayers, hear
me, and spare my brother."
   "Remove her," said the Colonel, gently endea-
vouring to extricate his hand; but there were
none who appeared disposed to obey. Frances ea-
gerly strove to read the expression of his averted
face, and resisted all his efforts to retire.
   "Colonel Singleton! how lately was your own
son in suffering and in danger? under the roof of
my father he was cherished -- -under my father's
roof he found shelter and protection. Oh! suppose
that son the pride of your age, the solace and pro-
tector of your orphan children, and then pro-
nounce my brother guilty if you dare."
   "What right has Heath to make an executioner
of me!" exclaimed the veteran fiercely, rising
with a face flushed like fire, and every vein and
artery swollen with suppressed emotion. "But
I forget myself -- come gentlemen, let us mount,
our painful duty must be done."
   "Mount not! -- go not!" shrieked Frances; "can
you tear a son from his parent? a brother from his
sister, so coldly? Is this the cause I have so ar-
dently loved? Are these the men that I have
been taught to reverence? But you relent, you
do hear me, you will pity and forgive."
   "Lead on, gentlemen," motioning towards the
door, erecting himself into an air of military gran-
deur, in the vain hope of quieting his feelings.
   "Lead not on, but hear me," cried Frances,
grasping his hand convulsively; "Colonel Single-
ton you are a father! -- -pity -- -mercy -- -mercy. for
the son -- -mercy for the daughter! Yes -- -you had
a daughter. On this bosom she poured out her
last breath; these hands closed her eyes; these
very hands, that are now clasped in prayer, did
those offices for her, that you now condemn my
poor, poor brother to require."

-
    
