
   One mighty emotion the veteran struggled with
and quelled, but with a groan that shook his whole
frame. He even looked around in conscious pride
at his victory; but a second burst of feeling con-
quered. -- -His head, white with the frost of seventy
winters, sunk upon the shoulder of the frantic sup-
pliant. The sword that had been his companion
in so many fields of blood, dropped from his nerve-
less hand, and as he cried -- -
   "May God bless you for the deed!" he wept
aloud.
   Long and violent was the indulgence that Co-
lonel Singleton yielded to his feelings. On reco-
vering, he gave the senseless Frances into the
arms of her aunt, and turning with an air of for-
titude to his comrades, he said -- 
   "Still, gentlemen, we have our duty as officers
to discharge; -- our feelings as men may be indul-
ged hereafter. What is your pleasure with the
prisoner?"
   One of the judges placed in his hand a written
sentence that he had prepared, while the Colonel
was engaged with Frances, and declared it to be
the opinion of himself and his companion.
   It briefly stated, that Henry Wharton had been
detected in passing the lines of the American ar-
my as a spy, and in disguise. That, thereby, ac-
cording to the laws of war, he was liable to suffer
death, and that this court adjudged him to the
penalty -- ordering him to be executed, by hang-
ing, before nine o'clock on the following morning.
   It was not usual to inflict capital punishments
even on the enemy, without referring the case to
the Commander-in-Chief, for his approbation; or,
in his absence, to the officer commanding for the
time being. But, as Washington held his head-
quarters at New-Windsor, on the western bank of

-
the Hudson, sufficient time was yet before them to
receive his answer.
   "This is short notice," said the veteran, hold-
ing the pen in his hand, in a suspense that had no
object; "not a day to fit one so young for hea-
ven?"
   "The royal officers gave Hale but an hour,"
returned his comrade; "we have extended the
usual time. But Washington has the power to
extend it, or to pardon."
   "Then to Washington will I go," cried the Co-
lonel, returning the paper with his signature, "and
if the services of an old man like me, or that brave
boy of mine, entitle me to his ear, I will yet save
the youth."
   So saying, he departed, full of his generous in-
tentions in favour of Henry Wharton.
   The sentence was communicated with proper
tenderness to the prisoner; and after giving a few
necessary instructions to the officer in command,
and despatching a courier to head-quarters with
their report, the remaining judges mounted, and
rode to their own quarters, with the same unmov-
ed exterior, but with the same dispassionate inte-
grity, they had maintained throughout the trial.

-
Chapter 11
CHAPTER XI.
"Have you no countermand for Claudio yet, 
But he must die to-morrow?" 
Measure for Measure. 
    
   A few hours were passed by the condemned pri-
soner, after his sentence was received, in the bo-
som of his family. Mr. Wharton wept in hope-
less despondency over the untimely fate of his son,
and Frances, after recovering from her insensibili-
ty, experienced an anguish of feeling to which the
bitterness of death itself would have been compa-
ratively light. Miss Peyton alone retained a ves-
tige of hope, or presence of mind to suggest wha-
might be proper to be done under their circumt
stances. The comparative composure of the good
spinster in no degree arose from any want of in-
terest in the welfare of her nephew, but was found-
ed in a kind of instinctive dependence on the cha-
racter of Washington. He was a native of the
same colony with herself, and although his early
military services, and her frequent visits to the fa-
mily of her sister, and subsequent establishment at
its head, had prevented their ever meeting, still
she was familiar with his domestic virtues, and
well knew that the rigid inflexibility for which his
public acts were distinguished, formed no part of
his reputation in private life. He was known in
Virginia as a consistent but just and lenient master,
and the maiden felt a kind of pride in associating
in her mind, her countryman with the man who

-
led the armies, and in a great measure, controlled
the destinies of America. She knew that Henry
was innocent of the crime for which he was con-
demned to suffer, and with that kind of simple
faith, that is ever to be found in the most ingenu-
ous and innocent characters, could not conceive
of those constructions and interpretations of law,
that inflicted punishment without the actual exist-
ence of crime. But even her confiding hopes
were doomed to meet with a speedy termination.
Towards noon, a regiment that was quartered on
the banks of the river, moved up to the ground in
front of the house that held our heroine and her
family, and deliberately pitched their temts with
the avowed intention of remaining until the fol-
lowing morning, to give solemnity and impression
to the execution of a British spy.
   Dunwoodie had performed all that was required
of him by his orders, and was at liberty to retrace
his steps to his expecting troops, who were impa-
tiently awaiting his return to be led against a de-
tachment of the enemy, that was known to be slow-
ly moving up the banks of the river, to cover a par-
ty of foragers in their rear. He was accompanied
by a small party of Lawton's troop, under the ex-
pectation of their testimony being required to con-
vict the prisoner, and Mason, the lieutenant, was
in command. But the confession of Capt. Whar-
ton had removed the necessity of examining any
witnesses on behalf of the people. The Major,
from an unwillingness to encounter the distress of
Henry's friends, and a dread of trusting himself
within its influence, had spent the time we have
mentioned, in walking by himself, in keen anxiety,
at a short distance from the dwelling. Like Miss
Peyton, he had some reliance on the mercy of
Washington, although moments of terrific doubt
ned despondency were continually crossing his

-
mind. To him the rules of service were familiar,
and he was more accustomed to consider his gene-
ral in the capacity of a ruler, than as exhibiting the
characteristics of the individual. A dreadful in-
stance had too recently occurred, which fully
proved that Washington was above the weakness
of sparing another in mercy to himself. While
pacing with hurried steps through the orchard, la-
bouring under these constantly recurring doubts,
enlivened by transient rays of hope, Mason ap-
proached him, accoutred completely for the saddle.
   "Thinking you might have forgotten the news
brought this morning from below, sir, I have taken
the liberty to order the detachment under arms,"
said the Lieutenant, very coolly, cutting down the
mullen tops with his sheathed sabre that grew
within his reach.
   "What news?" cried the Major, starting.
   "Only that John Bull is out in West-Chester.
with a train of wagons, which, if he fills, will com-
pel us to retire through these cursed hills, in
search of provender. These greedy Englishmen
are so shut up on York island, that when they do
venture out, they seldom leave straw enough to
furnish the bed of a yankee heiress."
   "Where did the express leave them, did you
say? The intelligence has entirely escaped my
memory."
   "On the heights above Sing-Sing," returned the
Lieutenant, with no little amazement. "The road
below looks like a hay-market, and all the swine
are sighing forth their lamentations, as the corn
passes them towards Kingsbridge. George Sin-
gleton's orderly, who brought up the tidings,
says that our horses were holding consultation if
they should not go down without their riders,
and eat another meal, for it is questionable with
them whether they can get a full stomach again.
