

-
If they are suffered to get back with their plunder,
we shall not be able to find a piece of pork, at
Christmas, fat enough to fry itself."
   "Peace, with all this nonsense of Singleton's
orderly, Mr. Mason," cried Dunwoodie, impatient-
ly; "let him learn to wait the orders of his supe-
riors."
   "I beg pardon in his name, Major Dunwoodie,"
said the subaltern; "but like myself, he was in
error. We both thought it was the order of Gen-
eral Heath, to attack and molest the enemy when-
ever he ventured out of his nest."
   "Recollect yourself, Lieutenant Mason," said
the Major, fiercely, "or I may have to teach you
that your orders pass through me."
   "I know it, Major Dunwoodie -- I know it," said
Mason, with a look of reproach; "and I am sorry
that your memory is so bad, as to forget that I
I never have yet hesitated to obey them."
   "Forgive me, Mason," cried Dunwoodie, taking
both his hands, "I do know you for a brave and
obedient soldier; forget my humour. But this bu-
siness -- Had you ever a friend?"
   "Nay, nay," interrupted the Lieutenant, " for-
give me and my honest zeal. I knew of the or-
ders, and was fearful that censure might fall on my
officer. But remain, and let a man breathe a
syllable against the corps, and every sword will
start from the scabbard of itself -- besides they are
still moving up, and it is a long road from Croton
to Kingsbridge. Happen what may, I see plainly
that we shall be on their heels, before they are
housed again."
   "Oh! that the courier was returned from head-
quarters," exclaimed Dunwoodie. "This sus-
pense is insupportable."
   "You have your wish," cried Mason; "here
he is coming at the moment, and riding like the

-
bearer of good news -- God send it may be so; for
I can't say that I particularly like, myself, to see
a brave young fellow dancing upon nothing."
   Dunwoodie heard but very little of this feel-
ing declaration; for, ere half of it was uttered,
he had leaped the fence and stood before the mes-
senger
   "What news have you?" cried the Major, the
moment that the soldier stopped his horse.
   "Good!" exclaimed the man; and feeling no
hesitation to entrust an officer so well known as
Major Dunwoodie, he placed the paper in his
hands, as he added, "But you can read it, sir, for
yourself."
   Dunwoodie paused not to read; but flew, with
the elastic spring of youth and joy, to the cham-
ber of the prisoner. The sentinel knew him, and
he was suffered to pass without question.
   "Oh! Peyton," cried Frances as he entered the
apartment; "you look like a messenger from
heaven: bring you tidings of mercy?"
   "Here, Frances -- here, Henry -- here, dear
cousin Jeannette," cried the youth, as with trem-
bling hands he broke the seal; "here is the letter
itself, directed to the captain of the guard. But
listen" -- 
   All did listen, with intense anxiety; and the
pang of blasted hope was added to their misery,
as they saw the glow of delight which had beamed
on the countenance of the Major on his entrance,
give place to a look of astonishment and terror.
The paper contained the sentence of the court,
and underneath was written these simple words -- 
   "Approved -- George Washington."
   "He's lost -- he's lost!" cried Frances, in the
piercing tones of despair, sinking into the arms
of her aunt.

-
    
   "My son -- My son!" sobbed the father, "there
is mercy in heaven, if there is none on earth. -- 
May Washington never want that mercy he thus
denies to my innocent child."
   "Washington!" echoed Dunwoodie, gazing
around him in vacant horror. "Yes, 'tis the act
of Washington himself; there are his characters -- 
his very name is here to sanction the dreadful
deed."
   "Cruel, cruel Washington!" cried Miss Pey-
ton; "how has familiarity with blood changed his
nature!"
   "Blame him not," said Dunwoodie; "it is the
General, and not the man; my life on it, he feels
the blow he is compelled to inflict."
   "I have been deceived in him," cried Frances.
"He is not the saviour of his country; but a cold
and merciless tyrant. Oh! Peyton, Peyton! how
have you misled me in his character!"
   "Peace, dear Frances; peace, for God's sake;
use not such language," cried her lover. "He is
but the guardian of the law."
   "You speak the truth, Major Dunwoodie," said
Henry, recovering from the shock of having his
last ray of hope extinguished, and advancing from
his seat by the side of his father. "I, who am to
suffer, blame him not. Every indulgence has
been granted me that I can ask. On the verge of
the grave, I cannot continue unjust. At such a
moment, with so recent an instance of danger to
your cause from treason, I wonder not at Wash-
ington's unbending justice. Nothing now remains,
but for me to prepare for that fate which so speed-
ily awaits me. To you Major Dunwoodie, I make
my first request."
   "Name it," said the Major, giving utterance
with difficulty.

-
    
   Henry turned and pointed impressively at the
groupe of weeping mourners near him, as he con-
tinued -- 
   "Be a son to this aged man -- help his weakness,
and defend him from any usage to which the stigma
thrown upon me may subject him. He has not
many friends amongst the rulers of this country;
let your powerful name be found among them."
   "It shall," said Dunwoodie, fervently pressing
the hand of his friend.
   "And this helpless innocent," continued Hen-
ry, pointing to where Sarah sat, in unconscious
melancholy. "I had hoped for an opportunity to
revenge her wrongs," a momentary flush of ex-
citement passed over his pallid features; "but
such thoughts are evil -- I feel them to bewrong.
Under your care, Peyton, she will find sympathy
and refuge."
   "She will," whispered Dunwoodie, unable to
speak aloud.
