
   "This good aunt has claims upon you already;
of her I will not speak; but here," taking the
hand of Frances, and dwelling upon her counte-
nance with an expression of fraternal affection -- 
"Here is the choicest gift of all. Take her to your
bosom, and cherish her as you would cultivate in-
nocence and virtue."
   The Major could not repress the eagerness with
which he extended his hand to receive the preci-
ous boon, but Frances shrinking from his touch,
hid her face in the bosom of her aunt, as she mur-
mured -- 
   "No, no, no -- none can ever be any thing to
me, who aid in my brother's destruction."
   Henry continued gazing at her in tender pity
for several moments, before he again resumed a
discourse that all felt was most peculiarly his own.

-
    
   "I have been mistaken then. I did think, Pey-
ton, that your worth, your noble devotion to a
cause that you have been taught to revere, that
your kindness to our father when in imprisonment,
your friendship to me, in short, that your charac-
ter was understood and valued by my sister."
   "It is -- it is," whispered Frances, burying her
face still deeper in the bosom of her aunt.
   "I believe, dear Henry," said Dunwoodie,
"this is a subject that had better not be dwelt upon
now."
   "You forget," returned the prisoner, with a
faint smile, "how much I have to do, and how
little time is left to do it in."
   "I apprehend," continued the Major, with a
face of fire, "that Miss Wharton has imbibed some
opinions of me, that would make a compliance
with your request irksome to her -- opinions that it
is now too late to alter."
   "No, no, no," cried Frances, quickly; "you
are exonerated, Peyton -- with her dying breath
she removed my doubts."
   "Generous Isabella!" murmured Dunwoodie,
with a glow of momentary rapture; "but still,
Henry, spare your sister now; nay, spare even
me."
   "I cannot spare myself," returned the brother
gently removing Frances from the arms of her
aunt. "What a time is this to leave two such
lovely females without a protector! -- Their abode
is destroyed, and misery will speedily deprive
them of their last male friend," looking at his
father; "can I die in peace, with the knowledge of
the danger to which they will be exposed?"
   "You forget me," said Miss Peyton, shrinking
herself at the idea of celebrating nuptials at such
a moment.'
   "No, my dear aunt, I forget you not, nor

-
shall I, until I cease to remember; but you forget
the times and the danger. -- The good woman who
lives in this house has already despatched a mes-
senger for a man of God, to smooth my passage to
another world; -- Frances, if you would wish me
to die in peace -- to feel a security that will allow
me to turn my whole thoughts to heaven, you will
let this clergyman unite you to Dunwoodie."
   Frances shook her head, but remained silent.
   "I ask for no joy -- no demonstration of a feli-
city that you will not, cannot feel for months to
come. -- But obtain a right to his powerful name -- 
give him an undisputed title to protect you -- "
   Again the maid made an impressive gesture of
denial.
   "For the sake of that unconscious sufferer -- "
pointing to Sarah, "for your sake -- for my sake -- 
my sister -- "
   "Peace, Henry, or you will break my heart,"
cried the agitated girl; "not for worlds would I
at such a moment engage in the solemn vows that
you wish. -- It would render me miserable for life."
   "You love him not," said Henry reproachful-
ly." I cease to importune you to do what is
against your inclinations."
   Frances raised one hand to conceal the coun-
tenance that was overspread with crimson, as she
extended the other towards Dunwoodie, and said
earnestly -- 
   "Now you are unjust to me -- before you were
unjust to yourself."
   "Promise me, then," said Wharton, musing
awhile in silence, "that so soon as the recollec-
tion of my fate is softened, you will give my friend
that hand for life, and I am satisfied."
   "I do promise," said Frances, withdrawing the
hand that Dunwoodie delicately relinquished
without even pressing it to his lips.

-
    
   "Well then, my good aunt," continued Henry,
"will you leave me for a short time alone with my
friend. I have a few melancholy commissions
with which to intrust him, and would spare you
and my sister the pain of hearing them."
   "There is yet time to see Washington again,"
said Miss Peyton, moving towards the door; and
then speaking with extreme dignity, she continu-
ed -- "I will go myself; surely he must listen to a
woman from his own colony? -- and we are in some
degree connected with his family."
   "Why not apply to Mr. Harper?" said Fran-
ces, recollecting the parting words of their guest
for the first time.
   "Harper!" echoed Dunwoodie, turning to-
wards her with the swiftness of lightning; "what
of him? do you know him?
   "It is in vain," said Henry drawing him aside;
"Frances clings to hope with the fondness of a
sister -- retire, my love, and leave me with my
friend."
   But Frances read an expression in the eye of
Dunwoodie that chained her to the spot. After
struggling to command her feelings, she con-
tinued -- 
   "He staid with us for two days -- he was with
us when Henry was arrested."
   "And -- and -- did you know him?"
   "Nay," continued Frances, catching her breath
as she witnessed the intense interest of her lover,
"we knew him not -- he came to us in the night a
stranger, and remained with us during the severe
storm; but he seemed to take an interest in Hen-
ry, and promised him his friendship."
   "What!" exclaimed the youth in astonishment;
"did he know your brother?"
   "Certainly; -- it was at his request that Henry
threw aside his disguise."

-
