
    
   "But -- " said Dunwoodie, turning pale with
suspense, "he knew him not as an officer of the
royal army."
   "Indeed he did," cried Miss Peyton; "and
cautioned against this very danger."
   Dunwoodie caught up the fatal paper, that still
lay where it had fallen from his own hands. and
studied its characters intently. Something seemed
to bewilder his brain. -- He passed his hand over
his forehead, while each eye was fixed on him in
dreadful suspense -- all feeling afraid to admit
those hopes anew, that had once been so sadly
destroyed.
   "What said he? -- what promised he?" -- at
length Dunwoodie asked with feverish impatience.
   "He bid Henry apply to him when in danger,
and promised to requite to the son the hospitality
of the father."
   "Said he this, knowing him to be a British
officer?"
   "Most certainly; and with a view to this very
danger."
   "Then -- " cried the youth aloud, and yielding
to his rapture, "then you are safe -- then will I
save him -- yes, Harper will never forget his
word."
   "But has he the power?" said Frances; "Can
he move the stubborn purpose of Washington?"
   "Can he! if he cannot -- " shouted the youth
in uncontrollable emotion, "if he cannot, who
can? -- Greene, and Heath, and young Hamilton
are as nothing, compared to this Harper. -- But,"
rushing to his mistress, and pressing her hands
convulsively, "repeat to me -- you say you have
his promise?"
   "Surely -- surely -- Peyton; -- his solemn, deli-
berate promise, knowing all of the circumstan-
ces."

-
    
   "Rest easy -- " cried Dunwoodie, holding her
to his bosom for a moment, "rest easy, for Henry
is safe."
   He waited not to explain, but darting from the
room he left the family in amazement. They
continued in silent wonder, until they heard the
feet of his charger, as he dashed from the door
with the speed of an arrow.
   A long time was spent after this abrupt depar-
ture of the youth, by the anxious friends he had
left, in discussing the probability of his success.
The confidence of his manner had, however, com-
municated to his auditors something of its own
spirit. Each felt that the prospects of Henry were
again brightening, and, with their reviving hopes,
they experienced a renewal of spirits, which in all
but Henry himself amounted to pleasure; with
him, indeed, his state was too awful to admit of
trifling, and for a few hours he was condemned
to feel how much more intolerable was suspense,
than even the certainty of calamity. Not so with
Frances. She, with all the reliance of affection,
reposed in security on the assurance of Dunwoo-
die, without harassing herself with doubts, that
she possessed not the means of satisfying; but
believing her lover able to accomplish every
thing that man could do, and retaining a vivid re-
collection of the manner and benevolent appear-
ance of Harper, the maid abandoned herself to
all the felicity of renovated hope.
   The joy of Miss Peyton was more sobered,
and she took frequent occasions to reprove her
niece for the exuberance of her spirits, before
there was a certainty that their expectations were
to be realized. But the slight smile that hovered
around the lips of the spinster contradicted the
very sobriety of feeling that she inculcated.

-
    
   "Why, dearest aunt," said Frances playfully,
in reply to one of her frequent reprimands, "would
you have me repress the pleasure that I feel at
Henry's deliverance, when you yourself have so
often declared it to be impossible, that such men
as ruled in our country could sacrifice an inno-
cent man."
   "Nay, I did believe it impossible, my child,
and yet think so; but still there is a discretion to
be shown in joy as well as in sorrow."
   Frances recollected the declarations of Isabel-
la, and turned an eye filled with tears of gratitude
on her excellent aunt as she replied -- 
   "True; but there are feelings that will not
yield to reason. -- Ah! there are those monsters,
who have come to witness the death of a fellow
creature, moving around yon field, as if this life
was to them but a military show."
   "It is but little more to the hireling soldier,"
said Henry, endeavouring to forget his uneasiness.
   "You gaze, my love, as if you thought a mi-
litary show of some importance," said Miss Pey-
ton, observing her niece to be looking from the
window with a fixed and abstracted attention. -- 
But Frances answered not.
   From the window where she stood the pass
that they had travelled through the highlands was
easily to be seen; and the mountain which held on
its summit the mysterious hut was directly before
her. Its side was rugged and barren; huge and
apparently impassable barriers of rocks presenting
themselves through the stunted oaks, which, strip-
ped of their foliage, were scattered over its sur-
face. The base of the hill was not half a mile
from the house, and the object which attracted
the notice of Frances, was the figure of a man
emerging from behind a rock of remarkable forma-

-
tion, and as suddenly disappearing. This manoe u-
vre was several times repeated, as if it were the
intention of the fugitive, (for such by his air he
seemed to be,) to reconnoitre the proceedings of
the soldiery, and assure himself of the position of
things on the plain. Notwithstanding the distance,
Frances instantly imbibed the opinion that it was
Birch. Perhaps this impression was partly owing
to the air and figure of the man, and in some mea-
sure to the idea that presented itself on formerly
beholding the object at the summit of the moun-
tain. -- That they were the same figure she was
confident, although this wanted the appearance,
which in the other she had taken for the pack of
the pedlar. Harvey had so connected himself with
the mysterious deportment of Harper within her
imagination, that under circumstances of less agita-
tion than those in which she had laboured since
her arrival, she would have kept her suspicions to
herself. Frances, therefore, sat ruminating on this
second appearance in silence, and endeavouring
to trace in her thoughts, what possible connexion
this extraordinary man could have with the for-
tunes of her own family. He had certainly saved
Sarah, in some degree, from the blow that had
partially alighted on her, and in no instance had
he proved himself to be hostile to their interests.
   After gazing for a long time at the point
where she had last seen the figure, in the vain
expectation of its re-appearance, she turned to
her friends in the apartment. Miss Peyton was
sitting by Sarah, who gave some slight additional
signs of noticing what passed, but who still con-
tinued insensible to either joy or grief.
   "I suppose by this time, my love, that you are
well acquainted with the manoeuvres of a regi-
ment," said the spinster, smiling at her nephew.

-
