
"It is no bad quality in a soldier's wife, at all
events."
   "I am not a wife yet," said Frances, colouring
to the eyes; "and we have no reason to wish for
another wedding in our family."
   "Frances!" exclaimed her brother, starting
from his seat, and pacing the floor in violent agita-
tion, "touch not that chord again, I entreat you.
While my fate is yet so uncertain I would wish to
be at peace with all men."
   "Then let the uncertainty cease," cried Fran-
ces, springing to the door; "for here comes Pey-
ton with the joyful intelligence of your release."
   The words were hardly uttered before the door
opened, and the Major entered. In his air there
was neither the appearance of success nor defeat,
but there was a marked display of vexation. He took
the hand that Frances in the fulness of her heart
extended towards him, but instantly relinquishing
it, threw himself into a chair, in evident fatigue.
   "You have failed," said Wharton, with a bound
of his heart, but an appearance of composure.
   "Have you seen Harper?" cried Frances, turn-
ing pale.
   "I have not -- I crossed the river in one boat as
he must have been coming to this side in another.
I returned without delay, and traced him for se-
veral miles into the Highlands by the western pass,
but there I unaccountably lost him. I have re-
turned here to relieve your uneasiness; but see him
I will this night, and bring a respite for Henry."
   "But saw you Washington?" asked Miss Pey-
ton.
   Dunwoodie gazed at her a moment in abstract-
ed musing, and the question was repeated. He
answered gravely, and with some reserve -- 
   "The commander in chief had left his quar-
ters."

-
    
   "But, Peyton," cried Frances, in returning ter-
ror, "if they should not see each other, it will be
too late. Harper alone will not be sufficient."
   Her lover turned his eyes slowly on her anxious
countenance, and dwelling a moment on her fea-
tures, said, still musing -- 
   "You say that he promised to assist Henry."
   "Certainly, of his own accord, and in requital
for the hospitality that he had received."
   Dunwoodie shook his head, and began to look
extremely grave.
   "I like not that word hospitality -- it has an
empty sound -- there must be something more rea-
sonable to tie Harper. I dread some mistake -- 
repeat to me all that passed."
   Frances, in a hurried and earnest voice, com-
plied with his request. She related particularly
the manner of his arrival at the Locusts, the re-
ception that he received, and the events that pas-
sed, as minutely as her memory would supply her
with the means. As she alluded to the conversa-
tion that occurred between her father and his
guest, the Major smiled, but remained silent. She
then gave a detail of Henry's arrival, and the
events of the following day. She dwelt upon the
part where Harper had desired her brother to
throw aside his disguise, and recounted with won-
derful accuracy his remarks upon the hazard of
the step that the youth had taken. She even re-
membered his remarkable expression to her bro-
ther, "that he was safer from Harper's knowledge
of his person than he would be without it." Fran-
ces mentioned, with the warmth of her youthful
admiration, the benevolent character of his de-
portment to herself, and gave a minute relation of
his adieus to the whole family.
   Dunwoodie at first listened with grave atten-
tion -- then evident satisfaction followed as she pro-

-
ceeded. When she spoke of herself in connexion
with their guest, he smiled with pleasure, and as
she concluded, he exclaimed, with perfect de-
light -- 
   "We are safe -- we are safe."
   But he was interrupted, as we will show in the
following chapter.

-
Chapter 12
CHAPTER XII.
"The owlet loves the gloom of night, 
The lark salutes the day, 
The timid dove will coo at hand -- 
But falcous soar away." 
Song in Duo. 
    
   In a country, settled like these states, by a peo-
ple who fled their native land, and much-loved
fire sides, victims to their tender consciences and
religious zeal, none of the decencies and solemni-
ties of a christian death are dispensed with, when
circumstances will admit of their exercise. The
good woman of the house was a strict adherent to
the forms of the church to which she belonged;
and, having herself been awakened to a sense of
her depravity, by the ministry of the divine who
harangued the people of the adjoining parish, she
thought that it was from his exhortations only, that
salvation could be meted out to the short-lived
hopes of Henry Wharton. Not that the kind-
hearted matron was so ignorant of the doctrines
of the religion which she professed, as to depend,
theoretically, on mortal aid for protection; but she
had, to use her own phrase, "set so long under
the preaching of good Mr. -- ," that she had
unconsciously imbibed a practical reliance on his
assistance for that, which, her faith should have
taught her, could come from the Deity alone. -- 
With her, the consideration of death was at all
times awful; and the instant that the sentence of

-
