
the prisoner was promulgated, she despatched
Cæsar, mounted on one of her husband's best
horses, in quest of her clerical monitor. This
step had been taken without consulting either
Henry or his friends, and it was only when the
services of Cæsar were required upon some do-
mestic emergency, that she explained the nature
of his absence. The youth heard her, at first,
with an unconquerable reluctance to admit of
such a spiritual guide; but as our view of the
things of this life becomes less vivid, our
prejudices and habits cease to retain their influ-
ence; and a civil bow of thanks was finally given
in requital of the considerate care of the well-
meaning woman.
   The black returned early from his expedition,
and as well as could be gathered from his some-
what incoherent narrative, a minister of God
might be expected to arrive in the course of the
day. The interruption that we mentioned in our
preceding chapter, was occasioned by the entrance
of the landlady. At the intercession of Dun-
woodie, orders had been given to the sentinel who
guarded the door of Henry's room, that the mem-
bers of the prisoner's family should, at all times,
have free access to his apartment: Cæsar was in-
cluded in this arrangement, as a matter of con-
venience, by the officer in command; but strict
inquiry and examination were made into the er-
rand of every other applicant for admission. The
Major had, however, included himself among the
relatives of the British officer; and one pledge,
that no rescue should be attempted, was given
in his name for them all. A short conversa-
tion was passing between the woman of the house
and the corporal of the guard, before the door
that the sentinel had already opened in anticipa-

-
tion of the decision of his non-commissioned
commandant.
   "Would you refuse the consolations of religion
to a fellow-creature, about to suffer death?" said
the matron with earnest zeal. "Would you
plunge a soul into the fiery furnace, and a minis-
ter at hand to point out the straight and narrow
path."
   "I'll tell you what, good woman," returned the
corporal, gently pushing her away; "I've no no-
tion of my back being a highway for any man to
walk to heaven upon. -- A pretty figure I should
make at the pickets, for disobeying my orders -- 
Just step down and ask Lieutenant Mason, and
you may bring in the whole congregation. We
have not taken the guard from the foot-soldiers
but an hour, and I shouldn't like to have it said
that we know less of our duty than the militia."
   "Admit the woman," said Dunwoodie, sternly;
observing, for the first time, that one of his own
corps was on post.
   The corporal raised his hand to his cap and fell
back in silence; the soldier stood to his arms, and
the matron entered.
   "Here is a reverend gentleman below, come to
soothe the parting soul, in the place of our own
divine, who is engaged with an appointment that
could not be put aside -- 'tis to bury old Mr. -- ."
   "Show him in," said Henry, with feverish im-
patience.
   "But will the sentinel let him pass? I would
not wish a friend of Mr. -- to be rudely stop-
ped on the threshold, and he a stranger."
   All eyes were now turned on Dunwoodie, who,
looking at his watch, spoke a few words with
Henry, in an under tone, and hastened from the
apartment, followed by Frances. The subject of

-
their conversation, was a wish expressed by the
prisoner for a clergyman of his own persuasion, and
a promise from the Major that one should be sent
from Fish-kill town, through which he was about
to pass, on his way to the ferry to intercept the ex-
pected return of Harper. Mason soon made his
bow at the door, and willingly complied with the
wishes of the landlady, and the divine was invited
to make his appearance accordingly.
   The person who was ushered into the apart-
ment, preceded by Cæsar with a face of awful
gravity, and followed by the matron with one of
deep concern, was a tall man, beyond the middle
age, or who might rather be said to approach the
down-hill of life. In stature, he was above the size of
ordinary men, though his excessive leanness might
contribute in deceiving as to his height; his coun-
tenance was sharp and unbending, and every mus-
cle seemed set in the most rigid compression. No
joy or relaxation appeared ever to have dwelt on
features that frowned habitually, as if in detesta-
tion of the vices of mankind. The brows were
beetling, dark, and forbidding, giving the promise of
eyes of no less repelling expression; but the or-
gans were concealed beneath a pair of enormous
green spectacles, through which they glared
around with a fierceness that denounced the com-
ing day of wrath, nor spoke any of that benevo-
lence which, forming the essence of our holy reli-
gion, should be the characteristic of its ministers.
All was fanaticism, uncharitableness, and denun-
ciation. Long, lank, and party-coloured hair, be-
ing a mixture of gray and black, fell down his
neck, and in some degree obscured the sides of
his face, and, parting on his forehead, fell in
either direction in straight and formal screens.
On the top of this ungraceful exhibition, was laid,

-
impending forward, so as to overhang in some
measure the whole fabric, a large hat of three
equal cocks. His coat was of a rusty black, and
his breeches and stockings were of the same co-
lour: his shoes without lustre, and half concealed
beneath their huge plated buckles.
   He stalked into the room, and giving a stiff
nod with his head, took the chair offered to him by
the black, in dignified silence. For several mi-
nutes no one broke this ominous pause in the con-
versation; Henry feeling a repugnance to his guest
that he was vainly endeavouring to conquer, and
the stranger himself drawing forth occasional sighs
and groans, that threatened a dissolution of the
unequal connexion between his sublimated soul
and its ungainly tenement. During this death-
like preparation, Mr. Wharton, with a feeling
nearly allied to that of his son, led Sarah from the
apartment. His retreat was noticed by the divine
in a kind of scornful disdain, and he began to hum
the air of a popular psalm tune, giving it the full
richness of the twang that distinguishes the eastern
psalmody.
   "Cæsar, said Miss Peyton," hand the gentleman
some refreshment; he must need it after his ride."
   "My strength is not in the things of this life,"
said the divine, sternly, speaking in the startling
tones of a hollow sepulchral voice. "Thrice have
I this day held forth in my master's service, and
fainted not; still it is prudent to help this frail te-
nement of clay, for, surely, `the labourer is worthy
of his hire.' "
   Opening a pair of enormous jaws to the exit of a
proportionable chew of tobacco, he took a good
measure of the proffered brandy, and suffered it
to glide downwards, with that facility with which
man is prone to sin.

-
    
   "I apprehend then, sir, that fatigue will disa-
ble you from performing those duties which kind-
ness has induced you to attempt."
   "Woman!" exclaimed the stranger, with ap-
palling energy; "when was I ever known to shrink
from a duty? But `judge not lest ye be judged', and
fancy not that it is given to mortal eyes to fathom
the intentions of the deity."
   "Nay," returned the spinster, meekly, and
slightly disgusted with his jargon; "I pretend not to
judge of either events or the intentions of my fel-
low creatures, much less of those of omnipotence."
   " 'Tis well, woman -- 'tis well," cried the min-
ister, waving his head with supercilious disdain;
"humility becometh thy sex, and lost condition -- 
thy weakness driveth thee on headlong, like `unto
the besom of destruction.' "
   Surprised at this extraordinary deportment, but
yielding to that habit which urges us to speak reve-
rently on sacred subjects, even when perhaps we
had better continue silent, Miss Peyton replied -- 
   "There is a power above, that can and will
sustain us all in well-doing, if we seek its support
in humility and truth."
   The stranger turned a lowering look of dis-
satisfaction at the speaker, and then composing
himself into an air of self-abasement, continued
in the same repelling tones as before -- 
   "It is not every one that cryeth out for mercy
that will be heard. The ways of providence are
not to be judged by men -- `Many are called, but
few chosen.' It is easier to talk of humility, than
to feel it. Are you so humbled, vile worm, as to
wish to glorify God by your own damnation? If
not, away with you for a publican and a pharisee."
   Such gross fanaticism was uncommon in Ame-
rica, and Miss Peyton began to imbibe the impres-
sion that their guest was deranged; but remember-

-
