
-
of intention, he was by no means assured that a
board of officers would be equally credulous, and
independent of all feelings of private regard, he
felt certain that with the execution of Henry
would be destroyed all hopes of an union with his
sister. He had despatched an officer the prece-
ding evening to Col. Singleton, who was in com-
mand in the advanced posts, reporting the capture
of the British Captain, and, after giving his own
opinion of his innocence, requesting orders as to
the manner in which he was to dispose of his pri-
soner. These orders might now be expected
every hour, and his uneasiness increased, in pro-
portion as the moment approached when his friend
might be removed from his protection. In this
disturbed state of mind the Major wandered
through the orchard, and was stopped in his walk
by arriving at the base of those rocks which had
protected the Skinners in their flight, before he
was conscious whither his steps had carried him.
He was about to turn, and retrace his path to
his quarters, when he was startled with a voice
bidding him to -- 
   "Stand or die."
   Dunwoodie turned in amazement, and beheld
the figure of a man placed at a little distance
above him on a shelving rock, with a musket in
his hands that was levelled at himself. The light
was not yet sufficiently powerful to reach the re-
cesses of that gloomy spot, and a second look was
necessary before he discovered, to his astonish-
ment, that it was the pedlar who stood before him.
Comprehending in an instant the danger of his
situation, and disdaining to implore mercy or to
retreat, had the latter been possible, the youth
cried firmly -- 
   "If I am to be murdered, fire; for I will never
become your prisoner."

-
    
   "No, Major Dunwoodie," said Birch, lowering
his musket, "it is neither my intention to capture
nor to slay."
   "What then would you have, mysterious be-
ing," said Dunwoodie, hardly able to persuade
himself that the form he saw was not a creature of
the imagination.
   "Your good opinion," answered the pedlar with
emotion; "I would wish all good men to judge
me with lenity."
   "To you it must be indifferent what may be the
judgement of men on your actions," said the Ma-
jor, gazing around him in continued surprise;
"for you seem to be beyond the reach of their
sentence."
   "God spares the lives of his servants to his own
time," said the pedlar solemnly: " 'Tis but a
few hours and I was your prisoner, and threatened
with the gallows; now you are mine; but, Major
Dunwoodie, you are free. There are those
abroad who would treat you less kindly. Of what
service would that sword be to you against my
weapon and a steady hand? Take the advice of
one who has never harmed you, and who never
will. Do not trust yourself in the skirts of any
wood, unless in company and mounted."
   "And have you comrades who have assisted you
to escape," said Dunwoodie, "and who are less
generous than yourself?"
   "No -- no" -- cried Harvey, clasping his hands
wildly, and speaking with bitter melancholy, "I
am alone truly -- none know me but my God and
Him."
   "And who?" asked the Major, with an inte-
rest he could not control.
   "None," continued the pedlar, recovering his
composure. "But such is not your case, Major
Dunwoodie; you are young and happy; there are

-
those that are dear to you, and such are not far
away -- danger is near them you love most -- dan-
ger within and without; -- double your watchful-
ness -- strengthen your patroles -- and be silent -- 
with your opinion of me, should I tell you more
you would suspect an ambush. But remember
and guard those you love best."
   The pedlar discharged the musket in the air,
and threw it at the feet of his astonished auditor;
and when the surprise and smoke suffered Dun-
woodie to look again on the rock where he had
stood, the spot was vacant.
   The youth was aroused from the stupor which
had been created by this strange scene, by the
trampling of horses and the sound of the bugles.
A patrole was drawn to the spot by the report of
the musket, and the alarm had been given to the
corps. Without entering into any explanation
with his men, the Major returned quickly to his
quarters, where he found the whole squadron un-
der arms, in battle array, impatiently awaiting the
appearance of their leader. The officer, whose
duty it was to superintend such matters, had di-
rected a party to lower the sign of the Hotel
Flannagan, and the post was already arranged for
the execution of the Spy. On hearing from the
major that the musket was discharged by himself,
and was probably another dropped by the Skinners,
(for by this time Dunwoodie had learnt the pu-
nishment inflicted by Lawton, but chose to con-
ceal his interview with Birch,) his officers sug-
gested the propriety of executing their prisoner
before they marched. Unable to believe all he
had seen was not a dream, Dunwoodie, followed
by many of his officers, and preceded by Sergeant
Hollister, went to the place which was supposed
to contain this mysterious pedlar.
   "Well, sir," said the major, sternly, to the sen-

-
tinel who guarded the door, "I suppose you have
your prisoner in safety."
   "He is yet asleep," replied the man, "and
makes such a noise I could hardly hear the bugles
sound the alarm."
   "Open the door and bring him forth," said
Dunwoodie to the sergeant.
   The order was obeyed, so far as circumstances
would allow; but, to the utter amazement of the
honest veteran, he found the room in no little
disorder -- the coat of the pedlar was where his
body ought to have been, and part of the ward-
robe of Betty was scattered in disorder on the
floor. The washerwoman herself occupied the
pallet in a profound mental oblivion, in all her
clothes excepting the little black bonnet, which
she so constantly wore, that it was commonly
thought she made it perform the double duty of
both day and night cap. The noise of their en-
trance, and the exclamations of the party, awoke
the woman, and rising, she exclaimed hastily -- 
   "Is it the breakfast that's wanting? Well, faith,
you look as if you would ate myself -- but patience
a little, darlings, and you'll see sich a fry as never
was."
   Fry!" echoed the sergeant, forgetful of his re-
ligious philosophy and the presence of his offi-
cers, "we'll have you roasted, you jade -- you've
helped that damn'd pedlar to escape."
   "Jade, back again in your teeth, and damn'd
pedlar too, Mister Sargeant," cried Betty, who
was easily roused; "what have I to do with ped-
lar's or escapes. I might have been a pedlar's
lady and worn my silks, if I'd had Sawny M`Twill,
instead of tagging at the heels of a parcel of dra-
gooning rapscallions, who don't know how to trate
a lone body with dacency."
   "The fellow has left my bible," said the vete-

-
ran, taking the book from the floor; "in place of
spending his time in reading it to prepare for his
end, like a good Christian, he has been busy in
labouring to escape."
   "And who would stay and be hung like a dog,"
cried Betty, beginning to comprehend the case;
" 'Tis'nt every one that's born to meet with sich
an ind -- like yourself, Mister Hollister."
