
ing that he had been sent by a well known divine,
and one of reputation, she discarded the idea, and
with much forbearance, observed -- 
   "I may deceive myself, in believing that mercy
is proffered to all, but it is so soothing a doctrine
that I would not willingly be undeceived."
   "Mercy is only for the elect," cried the stran-
ger, with an unaccountable energy; "and you
are in the `valley of the shadow of death.' Are
you not a follower of them idle ceremonies, which
belong to the vain church, that our tyrants would
gladly establish here, along with their stamp-acts
and tea-laws? Answer me that, woman; and re-
member, that heaven hears your answer: Are you
not of that idolatrous communion?"
   "I worship at the altars of my fathers," said
the spinster, motioning to Henry for silence;
"but bow to no other idol than my own infirmi-
ties."
   "Yes, yes -- I know ye -- self-righteous and pa-
pal, as ye are -- followers of forms and listeners
to bookish preaching -- think you, woman, that
holy Paul had notes in his hand to propound the
word to the believers."
   "My presence disturbs you," said Miss Peyton,
rising; "I will leave you with my nephew, and
offer those prayers in private that I did wish to
mingle with his."
   So saying, she withdrew, followed by the land-
lady; who was not a little shocked and somewhat
surprised by the intemperate zeal of her new ac-
quaintance. For although the good woman believ-
ed that Miss Peyton and her whole church were on
the high road to destruction, she was by no means
accustomed to hear such offensive and open avow-
als of their fate.
   Henry had with difficulty repressed the indigna-
tion excited by this unprovoked attack on his

-
meek and unresisting aunt; but as the door clo-
sed on her retiring figure he gave way to his feel-
ings, and exclaimed with heat -- 
   "I must confess, sir, that in receiving a minis-
ter of God, I thought I was admitting a Chris-
tian; and one who, by feeling his own weak-
nesses, knew how to pity the frailties of others.
You have wounded the meek spirit of that excel-
lent woman, and I acknowledge but little inclina-
tion to mingle in prayer with so intolerant a
spirit."
   The minister stood erect, with grave compo-
sure, following with his eyes in a kind of scornful
pity, the retiring spinster, and suffered the expos-
tulation of the youth to be given as if unworthy
of his notice -- A third voice, however, spoke -- 
   "Such a denunciation would have driven many
women into fits; but it has answered the purpose
well enough as it is."
   "Who's that?" cried the prisoner, in amaze-
ment, gazing around the room in quest of the
speaker -- 
   "It is me, Captain Wharton," said Harvey Birch,
removing the spectacles, and exhibiting his pier-
cing eyes shining under a pair of false eye-
brows.
   "Good Heavens! -- Harvey!"
   "Silence!" said the pedlar solemnly; " 'tis a
name not to be mentioned, and least of all, here,
within the heart of the American army." Birch
paused, and gazed around him for a moment, with
an emotion exceeding the base passion of fear -- 
and then continued in a gloomy tone, "There are
a thousand halters in that very name, and little
hope would there be left me of another escape,
should I be again taken. This is a fearful venture
that I now am making; but I could not sleep in
quiet, and know that an innocent man was about

-
to die the death of a dog, when I might save him."
   "No," said Henry, with a glow of generous
feeling on his cheek; "if the risk to yourself be
so heavy, retire as you came, and leave me to my
fate. Dunwoodie is making, even now, powerful
exertions in my behalf, and if he meets with Mr.
Harper in the course of the night, my liberation
is certain."
   "Harper!" echoed the pedlar, remaining with
his hands raised, in the act of replacing the spec-
tacles; "what do you know of Harper? and why
do you think he will do you service?"
   "I have his promise; -- you remember our re-
cent meeting in my father's dwelling, and he then
gave an unasked promise to assist me."
   "Yes -- but do you know him -- that is -- why do
you think he has the power? or what reason have
you for believing he will remember his word?"
   "If there ever was the stamp of truth, or sim-
ple, honest, benevolence, in the countenance of
man, it shone in his," said Henry; "besides, Dun-
woodie has powerful friends in the rebel army,
and it would be better that I take the chance
where I am, than thus to expose you to certain
death, if detected."
   "Captain Wharton," said Birch, looking guard-
edly around, with habitual caution, and speaking
with impressive seriousness of manner, "if I fail
you, all fail you. No Harper or Dunwoodie can
save your life; unless you get out with me, and
that within the hour, you die to-morrow on the
gallows of a murderer -- yes, such are their laws;
the man who fights, and kills, and plunders, is ho-
noured; but, he who serves his country as a spy,
no matter how faithfully, no matter how honestly,
lives to be reviled, or dies like the vilest criminal."
   "You forget, Mr. Birch," said the youth, a lit-
tle indignantly, "that I am not a treacherous,

-
lurking spy, who deceives to betray; but am inno-
cent of the charge imputed to me."
   The blood rushed over the pale, meager fea-
tures of the pedlar, until his face was one glow of
fire; but it passed away as quickly, and he re-
plied -- 
   "I have told you. Cæsar met me, as he was
going on his errand this morning, and with him I
have laid the plan, which, if executed as I wish,
will save you -- otherwise, you are lost; and I again
tell you, that no other power on earth, not even
Washington, can save you."
   "I submit," said the prisoner, yielding to his
earnest manner, and goaded by the fears that were
thus awakened anew.
   The pedlar beckoned him to be silent, and
walking to the door, opened it, with the stiff,
formal air, with which he had entered the apart-
ment.
   "Friend, let no one enter," he said to the sen-
tinel, "we are about to go to prayer, and would
wish to be alone."
   "I don't know that any will wish to interrupt
you," returned the soldier, with a waggish leer of
his eye; "but, should they be so disposed, I have
no power to stop them, if they be of the prison-
er's friends; I have my orders, and must mind
them, whether the Englishman goes to heaven or
not."
   "Audacious sinner!" said the pretended priest,
"have you not the fear of God before your eyes?
I tell you, as you will dread punishment at the last
day, to let none of the idolatrous communion en-
ter to mingle in the prayers of the righteous."
   "Whew -- ew -- ew -- what a noble commander
you'd make for sergeant Hollister; you'd preach
him dumb in a roll-call. Hark'ee, I'll just thank
you not to make such a noise when you hold forth,

-
