
as to drown our bugles, or you may get a poor fel-
low a short horn at his grog, for not turning out to
the evening parade: if you want to be alone, have
you no knife to stick over the door-latch, that you
must have a troop of horse to guard your meet-
ing-house?"
   The pedlar took the hint, and closed the door
immediately, using the precaution suggested by the
angry dragoon.
   "You overact your part," said young Wharton,
in constant apprehension of a discovery; "your
zeal is too intemperate."
   "For a foot soldier and them eastern militia, it
might be," said Harvey, turning a bag upside down
that Cæsar now handed him; "but these dragoons
are fellows that you must brag down. A faint
heart, Captain Wharton, would do but little here;
but come, here is a black shroud for your good-
looking countenance," taking at the same time, a
parchment mask and fitting it to the face of Henry.
"The master and the man must change places for
a season."
   "I don't tink he look a bit like me," said Cæsar,
with disgust, as he surveyed his young master with
his new complexion.
   "Stop a minute, Cæsar," said the pedlar, with
the lurking drollery that at times formed part of
his manner, " 'till we get on the wool."
   "He worse than ebber now," cried the discon-
tented African. "A tink coloured man like a
sheep. I nebber see sich a lip, Harvey; he most
as big as a sausage."
   Great pains had been taken in forming the dif-
ferent articles used in the disguise of Captain
Wharton, and when arranged under the skilful su-
perintendance of the pedlar, they formed together
a transformation that would easily escape detec-
tion from any but an extraordinary observer.

-
    
   The mask was stuffed, and shaped in such a
manner as to preserve the peculiarities, as well as
the colour, of the African visage, and the wig
was so artfully formed of black and white wool, as
to imitate the pepper-and-salt colour of Cæsar's
own head, and to extract plaudits from the black
himself, who thought it an excellent counterfeit
in every thing but quality.
   "There is but one man in the American army
who could detect you, Captain Wharton," said the
pedlar, surveying his work with satisfaction, "and
he is just now out of our way."
   "And who is he?"
   "The man who made you prisoner. He would
see your white skin through a horse-hide; but
strip both of you; your clothes must be changed
from head to foot."
   Cæsar, who had received minute instructions
from the pedlar in their morning interview, im-
mediately commenced throwing aside his coarse
garments, which the youth took up and prepared
to invest himself with, unable however to repress a
few signs of loathing.
   In the manner of the pedlar, there was an odd
mixture of care and humour; the former was the
result of a perfect knowledge of their danger, and
the means necessary to be used in avoiding it; and
the latter proceeded from the unavoidably ludicrous
circumstances before him, acting on an indifference
which sprung from habit, and long familiarity with
such scenes as the present.
   "Here Captain," he said, taking up some loose
wool, and beginning to stuff the stockings of Cæsar,
which were already on the leg of the prisoner;
"some judgment is necessary in shaping this limb.
You will have to display it on horseback and them
southern dragoons are so used to the brittle-shins,
that should they notice your well turned calf, they'd

-
know at once that it never belonged to the car-
case of a black."
   "Golly!" said Cæsar, with a chuckle that exhi-
bited a mouth open from ear to ear, "massy Har-
ry breeches fit like ebbery ting."
   "Every thing but your leg," said the pedlar,
coolly pursuing the toilet of Henry. "Slip on the
coat, Captain, over all. Upon my word you'd pass
well at a pinkster frolic; and here, Cæsar, place
this powdered wig over your curls, and be careful
and look out of the window whenever the door
is open, and on no account speak, or you will be-
tray all.
   "I s'pose Harvey tink a color'd man an't got a
tongue like oder folk," grumbled the black, as he
took the station assigned to him.
   Every thing now was arranged for action, and
the pedlar very deliberately went over the whole
of his injunctions to the two actors in the scene. -- 
The Captain he conjured to dispense with his
erect military carriage, and for a season to adopt
the humbler paces of his father's negro, and Cæ-
sar he enjoined to silence and disguise, so long as
he could possibly maintain them. Thus prepared he
opened the door, and called aloud to the sentinel,
who had retired to the farthest end of the passage,
in order to avoid receiving any of that spiritual
comfort, which he felt was the sole property of
another.
   "Let the woman of the house be called," said
Harvey, in the solemn key of his assumed charac-
ter; "and let her come alone. The prisoner is
in a happy train of meditation, and must not be
led from his devotions."
   Cæsar sunk his face between his hands, and
when the soldier looked into the apartment, he
thought he saw his charge in deep abstraction.
Casting a glance of huge contempt at the divine,

-
he cried aloud for the good woman of the house.
She hastened at the call with earnest zeal, enter-
taining a secret hope that she was to be admitted
to the gossip of a death-bed repentance.
   "Sister," said the minister in the authoritative
tones of a master, "have you in the house `The
Christian criminal's last moments, or thoughts on
eternity for those who die a violent death?"'
   "I never heard of the book!" said the matron
in astonishment.
   " 'Tis not unlikely; there are many books you
have never heard of -- it is impossible for this poor
penitent to pass in peace, without the consolations
of that volume. One hours reading in it, is worth
an age of man's preaching."
   "Bless me, what a treasure to possess! -- when
was it put out?"
   "It was first put out at Geneva in the Greek
language, and then translated at Boston. It is a
book, woman, that should be in the hands of
every Christian, especially such as die upon the
gallows. -- Have a horse prepared instantly for this
black, who shall accompany me to my Brother
-- , and I will send down the volume yet in
season. -- Brother compose thy mind; you are
now in the narrow path to glory."
   Cæsar wriggled a little in his chair, but had suf-
ficient recollection to conceal his face with hands,
that were in their turn concealed by gloves. The
landlady departed to comply with this very rea-
sonable request, and the group of conspirators
were again left to themselves.
   "This is well," said the pedlar, "but the diffi-
cult task is to deceive the officer who commands
the guard -- he is lieutenant to Lawton, and has
learned some of the captain's own cunning in
these things -- remember, Captain Wharton," con-

-
tinued he, with an air of pride, "that now is the
moment when every thing depends on our cool-
ness."
