
   "My fate can be made but little worse than it
is at present, my worthy fellow," said Henry, "but
for your sake I will do all that in me lies."
   "And wherein can I be more forlorn and per-
secuted than I now am?" asked the pedlar, with
that wild incoherency which often crossed his man-
ner. "But I have promised one to save you, and
to him I never yet have broken my word."
   "And who is he?" said Henry with awakened
interest.
   "No one," returned the pedlar.
   The man now returned and announced that
both their horses were at the door. Harvey gave
the captain a glance of his eye, and led the way
down the stairs, first desiring the woman to leave
the prisoner to himself, in order to his digesting
the wholesome food that he had so lately received
at his hands.
   The rumour of the odd character of the priest,
had spread from the sentinel at the door, to his
comrades; so, that when Harvey and Wharton
reached the open space before the building, they
found a dozen idle dragoons loitering about, with
the waggish intention of quizzing the fanatic, and
employed in affected admiration of the steeds.
   "A fine horse, you have," said the leader in
this plan of mischief; "but a little low in flesh; I
suppose from hard labour in your calling."
   "My calling may be laborious to both myself
and this faithful beast, but then a day of settling
is at hand, that will reward me for all my out-go-
ings and in-comings," said Birch, putting his foot
in the stirrup, and preparing to mount.
   "So, then you work for pay, as we fight for't?
cried another of the party.

-
    
   "Even so -- `is not the labourer worthy of his
hire?"'
   "Come, suppose you give us a little preaching;
we have a leisure moment just now, and there's
no telling how much good you might do a set of
reprobates like us, in a few words; here, mount
this horse-block, and take your text from where
you please."
   The men now gathered around the pedlar in ea-
ger delight, and glancing his eye expressively to-
wards the Captain, who had been suffered to
mount in peace, he replied -- 
   "Doubtless, for such is my duty. But Cæsar,
you can ride up the road, and give the note -- the
unhappy prisoner will be wanting the book, for
his hours are numbered."
   "Aye -- aye, go along Cæsar, and get the book,"
shouted have a dozen voices, all crowding eager-
ly around the ideal priest, in anticipation of a
frolic.
   The pedlar inwardly dreaded, that, in their
unceremonious handling of himself and gar-
ments, his hat and wig might be displaced, when
detection would be certain; he was, therefore,
fain to comply with their request. Ascending the
horse-block, after hemming once or twice, and
casting several glances at the Captain, who con-
tinued immoveable, he commenced as follows:
   "I shall call your attention, my brethren, to that
portion of scripture which you will find in the 2d
book of Samuel, and which is written in the
following words: `And the king lamented over Ab-
ner, and said, died Abner as a fool dieth -- thy
hands were not bound, nor thy feet put into fet-
ters; as a man falleth before wicked men, so falleth
thou, and all the people wept again over him.'
Cæsar, ride forward, I say, and obtain the book as

-
directed; thy master is groaning in spirit even now
for the want of it."
   "An excellent text," cried the dragoons. "Go
on -- go on -- let the snow-ball stay; he wants to
be edified as well as another."
   "What are you at there, you scoundrels," cried
Lieutenant Mason, as he came in sight from a
walk he had taken to sneer at the evening parade
of the regiment of militia; "away with every man
of you to your quarters, and let me find that each
horse is cleaned and littered when I come round."
The sound of the officer's voice operated like a
charm, and no priest could desire a more silent con-
gregation, although he might possibly have wished
for one that was more numerous. Mason had not
done speaking, when it was reduced to the image
of Cæsar only. The pedlar took that opportunity
to mount, but he had to preserve the gravity of
his movements, for the remark of the troopers upon
the condition of their beasts, was but too just, and
a dozen of dragoon horses stood saddled and bri-
dled at hand, ready to receive their riders at a
moment's warning.
   "Well, have you bitted the poor devil within,"
said Mason, "that he can take his last ride under
the curb of divinity, old gentleman."
   "There is evil in thy conversation, profane
man," cried the priest, raising his hands, and cast-
ing his eyes upwards in holy horror; "so I will
depart from thee unhurt, even as Daniel was libe-
rated from the lion's den."
   "Off with you, for a hypocritical, psalm sing-
ing, canting rogue in disguise," said Mason scorn-
fully; "by the life of Washington! it worries an
honest follow, to see such voracious beasts of
prey ravaging a country for which he shed his
blood. If I had you on a Virginia plantation for

-
a quarter of an hour, I'd teach you to worm the
tobacco with the turkeys."
   "I leave you, and shake the dust off my shoes,
that no remnant of this wicked hole may tarnish
the vestments of the godly."
   "Start, or I will shake the dust from your jack-
et, you designing knave. A fellow to be preach-
ing to my men! There's Hollister put the devil
in them by his exhorting -- the rascals were get-
ting too conscientious to strike a blow that would
rase the skin. But hold, whither do you travel,
master blackey, in such godly company?"
   "He goes," said the minister, hastily speaking
for his companion, "to return with a book of
much condolence and virtue to the sinful youth
above, whose soul will speedily become white,
even as his outwards are black and unseemly.
Would you deprive a dying man of the consola-
tion of religion?"
   "No -- no -- poor fellow, his fate is bad enough,
-- a famous good breakfast that prim body of an
aunt of his gave us. But harkee, Mr. Revela-
tions, if the youth must die secundum artem, let
it be by a gentleman's directions; and my advice
is, that you never trust that skeleton of yours
among us again, or I will take the skin off and
leave you naked."
   "Out upon thee for a reviler and scoffer of
goodness!" said Birch, moving slowly, and with
a due observance of clerical dignity, down the
road, followed by the imaginary Cæsar; "but I
leave thee, and that behind me that will prove
thy condemnation, and take from thee a hearty
and joyful deliverance."
   "Damn him," muttered the trooper, pursing
his lip with a scornful smile, "the fellow rides
like a stake, and his legs stick out like the cocks

-
of his hat. I wish I had him below these hills
where the law is not over particular, I'd" -- 
   "Corporal of the guard! -- corporal of the
guard!" -- shouted the sentinel in the passage to
the chambers -- "corporal of the guard! -- corpo-
ral of the guard!"
   The subaltern flew up the narrow stair-way
that led to the room of the prisoner, and demand-
ed of the man the meaning of his outcry.
   The soldier was standing at the open door of
the apartment, looking in with a suspicious eye,
upon the supposed British officer. On observing
his lieutenant he fell back with habitual respect,
and replied with an air of puzzled thought -- 
