
   "I dont know, sir; but just now the prisoner
looked queer. Ever since the preacher has left
him he don't look as he used to do -- but" -- gazing
intently over the shoulder of his officer, "it must
be him, too. There is the same powdered head,
and the darn in the coat, where he was hit the
day we had the last brush with the enemy."
   "And then all this noise is occasioned, by your
doubting whether that poor gentleman is your
prisoner or not, is it sirrah? Who the devil do
you think it can be else?"
   "I don't know who else it can be," returned
the fellow sullenly; "but he's grown thicker and
shorter, if it is him; and see for yourself, sir, he
shakes all over like a man in an ague."
   This was but too true. Cæsar was an alarmed
auditor of this short conversation, and from con-
gratulating himself upon the dexterous escape of
his young master, his thoughts were very natu-
rally beginning to dwell upon the probable conse-
quences to his own person. The pause that
succeeded to the last remark of the sentinel, in
no degree contributed to the restoration of his
faculties. Lieutenant Mason was busied in ex-

-
amining with his own eyes the suspected person
of the black, and Cæsar was aware of the fact,
by stealing a look through a passage under one of
his arms, that he had left for the purpose of re-
connoitring. Captain Lawton would have disco-
vered the fraud immediately, but Mason was by
no means so quick-sighted as his commander. He
therefore turned rather contemptuously to the
soldier, and speaking in an under tone, observed -- 
   "That anabaptist, methodistical, quaker, psalm-
singing rascal, has frightened the boy, with his
farrago about flames and brimstone. I'll step in
and cheer him with a little rational conversation."
   "I have heard of fear making a man white,"
said the soldier drawing back, and staring as if
his eyes would start from their sockets; "but it
has changed the royal captain to a black."
   The truth was, that Cæsar, unable to hear what
Mason uttered in a low voice, and having every
fear aroused in him by what had already passed,
incautiously removed the wig a little from one of
his ears in order to hear the better, without in
the least remembering that its colour might prove
fatal to his disguise. The sentinel had kept his
eyes fastened on his prisoner and noticed the ac-
tion. The attention of Mason was instantly
drawn to the same object, and forgetting all deli-
cacy for a brother officer in distress, or, in short,
forgetting every thing but the censure that might
alight on his corps, the Lieutenant sprang for-
ward and seized the terrified African by the throat.
For no sooner had Cæsar heard his colour named,
than he knew his discovery was certain; and at
the first sound of Mason's heavy boot on the floor,
he arose from his seat and retreated precipitately
to a corner of the room.
   "Who are you?" cried Mason, dashing the head
of the old man against the angle of the wall at

-
each interrogatory, "who the devil are you, and
where is the Englishman? Speak! you thunder-
cloud. Answer me, you jack-daw, or I'll hang
you on the gallows of the spy.
   But Cæsar continued firm. Neither the threats
nor the blows could extract any reply, until the
Lieutenant, by a very natural transition in the at-
tack, sent his heavy boot forward in a direction
that brought it in exact contact with the most
sensitive part of the negro -- his shin. The most
obdurate heart could not have exacted further
patience, and Cæsar instantly gave in. The first
words he spoke were -- 
   "Golly! Massa! You tink I got no feelin?"
   "By Heavens!" shouted the Lieutenant; "it
is the negro himself. Scoundrel! where is your
master, and who was the priest?" While speaking
he made a movement as if about to renew the at-
tack; but Cæsar cried aloud for mercy, promising
to tell all that he knew.
   "Who was the priest?" repeated the dragoon,
drawing back his formidable leg, and holding it in
threatening suspense.
   "Harvey, Harvey!" cried Cæsar, dancing from
one leg to the other, as he thought each member
in its turn assailed.
   "Harvey who? you black villain," cried the im-
patient Lieutenant, as he executed a full measure
of vengeance by letting his leg fly.
   "Birch!" shrieked Cæsar, falling on his knees,
the tears rolling in large drops over his shining
face.
   "Harvey Birch!" echoed the trooper, hurling
the black from him and rushing from the room;
"To arms! to arms! Fifty guineas for the life of
the Pedlar spy -- give no quarters to either. Mount,
mount! to arms! to horse!"

-
    
   During the uproar occasioned by the assembling
of the dragoons, who all rushed tumultuously to
their horses, Cæsar rose from the floor, where he
had been thrown by Mason, and began to examine
into his injuries. -- Happily for himself, he had
alighted on his head, and sustained no material
damage.

-
Chapter 13
CHAPTER XIII.
"Away went Gilpin, neck or nought, 
Away went hat and wig! 
He little dreamt, when he set out, 
Of running such a rig!" 
Cowper. 
    
   The road which it was necessary for the ped-
lar and the English captain to travel, in order to
reach the shelter of the hills, lay for a half-mile
in full view from the door of the building that had
so recently been the prison of the latter; running
for the whole distance over the rich plain that
spreads to the very foot of the mountains, which
here rise in a nearly perpendicular ascent from
their bases; it then turned short to the right, and
was obliged to follow the windings of nature as it
won its way into the bosom of the highlands.
   To preserve the supposed difference in their
stations, Harvey rode a short distance ahead of his
companion, and maintained the sober, dignified
pace that was suited to his assumed character.
On their right, the regiment of foot that we have
already mentioned lay in tents; and the sentinels
who guarded their encampment, were to be seen
moving with measured tread, under the skirts of
the hills themselves.
   The first impulse of Henry was, certainly, to
urge the beast he rode to his greatest speed at
once, and by a coup-de-main, not only accomplish
his escape, but relieve himself from the torturing
