

-
suspense of his situation. But the forward move-
ment that the youth made for this purpose was
instantly checked by the pedlar.
   "Hold up!" he cried, dexterously reining his
own horse across the path of the other; "would
you ruin us both? Fall into the place of a
black, following his master. Did you not see
their blooded chargers, all saddled and bridled,
standing in the sun before the house? How long
do you think that miserable Dutch horse you are
on would hold his speed, if pursued by the Vir-
ginians? Every foot that we can gain, without
giving the alarm, counts us a day in our lives.
Ride steadily after me, and on no account look
back. They are as subtle as foxes, aye, and as
ravenous for blood as wolves!"
   Henry reluctantly restrained his impatience,
and followed the directions of the pedlar. His
imagination, however, continually alarmed him
with the sounds of a fancied pursuit; though Birch
who occasionally looked back under the pretence
of addressing his companion, assured him that all
continued quiet and peaceful.
   "But," said Henry, "it will not be possible for
Cæsar to remain undiscovered long -- had we not
better put our horses to the gallop, and by the
time that they can reflect on the cause of our
flight, we can reach the corner of the woods?"
   "Ah! you little know them, Captain Wharton,"
returned the pedlar' "there is a sergeant at this
moment looking after us, as if he thought all was
not right -- the keen-eyed fellow watches me like
a tiger laying in wait for his leap; when I stood
on the horse-block he half suspected then that
something was wrong; nay, check your beast -- 
we must let the animals walk a little, for he is
laying his hand on the pommel of his saddle -- if

-
he mounts now we are gone. The foot-soldiers
could reach us with their muskets."
   "What does he do?" asked Henry, reining his
horse to a walk, but at the same time pressing his
heels into his sides, to be in readiness for a
spring.
   "He turns from his charger, and looks the other
way; now trot on gently -- not so fast -- not so
fast -- observe the sentinel in the field, a little
ahead of us -- he eyes us keenly."
   "Never mind the footman," said Henry impa-
tiently; "he can do nothing but shoot us -- where-
as, these dragoons may make me a captive again.
Surely, Harvey, there are horse moving down the
road behind us. Do you see nothing particu-
lar?"
   "Humph!" ejaculated the pedlar; "there is
something particular indeed, to be seen behind
the thicket on our left -- turn your head a little,
and you may see and profit by it too."
   Henry eagerly seized this permission to look
aside, and the blood curdled to his heart as he ob-
served that they were passing a gallows that un-
questionably had been erected for his own execu-
tion: -- he turned his face from the sight in undis-
guised horror.
   "There is a warning to be prudent in that bit
of wood," said the pedlar, in the sententious man-
ner that he often adopted.
   "It is a terrific sight, indeed!" cried Henry, for
a moment veiling his eyes with his hand, as if to
drive a vision from before him.
   The pedlar moved his body partly around, and
spoke with energetic but gloomy bitterness -- "and
yet, Captain Wharton, you see it where the setting
sun shines full upon you; the air you breathe is
clear, and fresh from the hills before you. Every
step that you take, leaves that hated gallows be-

-
hind, and every dark hollow, and every shape-
less rock in the mountains, offers you a hiding place
from the vengeance of your enemies. But I have
seen the gibbet raised, when no place of refuge
offered. Twice have I been buried in dungeons,
where, fettered and in chains, I have passed nights
in torture, looking forward to the morning's dawn
that was to light me to a death of infamy. The
sweat has started from limbs that seemed already
drained of their moisture, and if I ventured to the
hole that admitted air through grates of iron, to
look out upon the smiles of nature, which God
has bestowed for the meanest of his creatures, the
gibbet has glared before my eyes like an evil con-
science, harrowing the soul of a dying man. Four
times have I been in their power, besides this last;
but -- twice -- twice -- did I think that my hour had
come. It is hard to die at the best, Captain Whar-
ton; but to spend your last moments alone and
unpitied, to know that none near you so much as
think of the fate that is to you the closing of all
that is earthly; to think, that in a few hours, you
are to be led from the gloom, which as you dwell on
what follows, becomes dear to you, to the face of
day, and there to meet all eyes upon you, as if you
were a wild beast; and to lose sight of every thing
amidst the jeers and scoffs of your fellow-crea-
tures. That, Captain Wharton, that indeed is to
die."
   Henry listened in amazement, as his companion
uttered this speech with a vehemence altogether
new to him; both seemed to have forgotten their
danger and their disguises, as he cried -- 
   "What! were you ever so near death as that?"
   "Have I not been the hunted beast of these
hills for three years past?" resumed Harvey; "and
once they even led me to the foot of the gallows
itself, and I escaped only by an alarm from the

-
royal troops. Had they been a quarter of an hour
later, I must have died. There was I placed in the
midst of unfeeling men, and gaping women and
children, as a monster to be cursed. When I
would pray to God, my ears were insulted with
the history of my crimes; and when in all that
multitude I looked around for a single face that
showed me any pity, I could find none -- no, not
even one -- all cursed me as a wretch who would
sell his country for gold. The sun was brighter
to my eyes than common -- but then it was the last
time I should see it. The fields were gay and plea-
sant, and every thing seemed as if this world was
a kind of heaven. Oh! how sweet life was to me
at that moment! 'Twas a dreadful hour, Captain
Wharton, and such as you have never known.
You have friends to feel for you, but I had none
but a father to mourn my loss, when he might
hear of it; but there was no pity, no consolation
near to sooth my anguish. Every thing seemed
to have deserted me. -- I even thought that he had
forgotten that I lived."
   "What! did you feel that God had forsaken
you, Harvey?" cried the youth, with strong sym-
pathy.
   "God never forsakes his servants," returned
Birch with reverence, and betraying naturally a
devotion that hitherto he had only assumed.
   "And who did you mean by he?"
   The pedlar raised himself in his saddle to the
stiff and upright posture that was suited to his out-
ward appearance. The look of fire that for a
short time glowed upon his countenance disap-
peared in the solemn lines of unbending self-
abasement, and speaking as if addressing a negro,
he replied -- 
   "In heaven there is no distinction of colour,
my brother, therefore you have a precious charge

-
within you, that you must hereafter render an ac-
count of," -- dropping his voice, "This is the last
sentinel near the road; look not back, as you va-
lue your life."
   Henry remembered his situation, and instantly
assumed the humble demeanour of his adopted
character. The unaccountable energy of the
pedlar's manner was soon forgotten in the sense
of his own immediate danger; and with the
recollection of his critical situation, returned all
the uneasiness that he had momentarily forgot-
ten.
