
   "What see you, Harvey?" he cried, observing
the pedlar to gaze towards the building they had
left, with ominous interest; "what see you at
the house?"
   "That which bodes no good to us," returned
the pretended priest. "Throw aside the mask
and wig -- you will need all your senses without
much delay -- throw them in the road: there are
none before us that I dread, but there are those be-
hind who will give us a fearful race."
   "Nay, then," cried the Captain, casting the im-
plements of his disguise into the highway, "let
us improve our time to the utmost -- -we want a
full quarter to the turn; why not push for it at
once?"
   "Be cool -- -they are in alarm, but they will not
mount without an officer, unless they see us fly -- -
now he comes -- -he moves to the stables -- -trot
briskly -- -a dozen are in their saddles, but the offi-
cer stops to tighten his girths -- -they hope to steal
a march upon us -- -he is mounted -- -now ride,
Captain Wharton, for your life, and keep at my
heels. If you quit me you will be lost."
   A second request was unnecessary. The instant
that Harvey put his horse to his speed, Captain

-
Wharton was at his heels, urging the miserable
animal that he rode to the utmost. Birch had se-
lected the beast on which he rode, and although
vastly inferior to the high fed and blooded chargers
of the dragoons, still he was much superior to the
little pony that had been thought good enough
to carry Cæsar Thompson on an errand. A very
few jumps convinced the Captain that his compa-
nion was fast leaving him, and a fearful glance that
he threw behind, informed the fugitive that
his enemies were as speedily approaching. With
that abandonment that makes misery doubly grie-
vous, when it is to be supported alone, Henry
cried aloud to the pedlar not to desert him. Har-
vey instantly drew up and suffered his companion
to run along side of the horse he rode. The cocked
hat and wig of the pedlar fell from his head, the
moment that his steed began to move briskly, and
this development of their disguise, as it might be
termed, was witnessed by the dragoons, who an-
nounced their observation by a boisterous shout,
that seemed to be uttered in the very ears of the
fugitives -- so loud was the cry, and so short the
distance between them.
   "Had we not better leave our horses?" said
Henry, "and make for the hills across the fields
on our left -- the fence will stop our pursuers."
   "That way lies the gallows," returned the ped-
lar -- "these fellows go three feet to our two, and
would mind them fences no more than we do these
ruts; but it is a short quarter to the turn, and there
are two roads behind the wood. They may stand
to choose until they can take the track, and we
shall gain a little upon them there."
   "But this miserable horse is blown already,"
cried Henry, urging his beast with the end of his
bridle, at the same time that Harvey aided his ef-
forts by applying the lash of a heavy riding whip

-
that he carried; "he will never stand it for half a
mile further."
   "A quarter will do -- a quarter will do," said the
pedlar; "a single quarter will save us, if you fol-
low my directions."
   Somewhat cheered by the cool and confident
manner of his companion, Henry continued silent-
ly urging his horse forward. A few moments
brought them to the desired turn, and as they
doubled round a point of low under-brush, the
fugitives caught a glimpse of their pursuers scat-
tered along the highway. -- Mason and the ser-
geant being better mounted, were much nearer to
their heels than even the pedlar thought could be
possible.
   At the foot of the hills, and for some distance
up the dark valley that wound among the moun-
tains, a thick underwood of saplings had been
suffered to shoot up, where the heavier growth
was felled for the sake of the fuel. At the sight of
this cover Henry again urged the pedlar to dis-
mount and secrete themselves, but his request was
promptly refused. The two roads before men-
tioned met at a very sharp angle, at a short distance
from the turn, and both were circuitous, so that
but little of either could be seen at a time.
The pedlar took the one which led to the left,
but held it only a moment; for on reaching a
partial opening in the ticket, he darted across
into the right-hand path, and led the way up a
steep ascent which lay directly before them.
This manoeuvre saved them. -- On reaching the
fork the dragoons followed the track, and passed
the spot where the fugitives had crossed to the
other road, before they missed the marks of the
footsteps. Their loud cries were heard, by Henry
and the pedlar as their wearied and breathless
animals toiled up the hill, ordering their comrades

-
in the rear to ride in the right direction. The
Captain again proposed to leave their horses and
plunge into the thicket.
   "Not yet -- -not yet," said Birch in a low voice;
"the road falls from the top of this hill as steep
as it rises -- first let us gain the top." While speak-
ing, they reached the desired summit, and both
threw themselves from their horses, Henry plung-
ing into the thick underwood, which covered the
side of the mountain for some distance above
them. Harvey stopped to give each of their
beasts a few severe blows of his whip, that drove
them headlong down the path on the other side
of the eminence, and then followed his example.
   The pedlar entered the thicket with a little
caution, and avoided, as much as possible, rust-
ling or breaking the branches in his way.
There was but time only to shelter his person
from view, when a dragoon led up the ascent and
on reaching the height, he cried aloud -- 
   "I saw one of their horses turning the hill this
minute."
   "Drive on -- spur forward, my lads," shouted
Mason, "give the Englishman quarters, but cut
down the pedlar, and make an end of him."
   Henry felt his companion gripe his arm hard, as
he listened in an universal tremor to this cry,
which was followed by the passage of a dozen
horsemen, with a vigor and speed, that showed
too plainly how little security their over-tired
steeds could have afforded them.
   "Now," said the pedlar, rising from their cover
to reconnoitre, and standing for a moment in sus-
pense, "all that we gain is clear gain, for as we
go up they go down. Let us be stirring."
   "But will they not follow us, and surround this
mountain," said Henry, rising, and imitating the
laboured but rapid progress of his companion;

-
"remember they have foot as well as horse, and
at any rate we shall starve in the hills."
   "Fear nothing, Captain Wharton," returned the
pedlar, with confidence; "this is not the moun-
tain that I would be on, but necessity has made me
a dexterous pilot among these hills. I will lead
you where no man will dare to follow. See, the
sun is already setting behind the top of the west-
ern mountains, and it will be two hours to the
rising of the moon. Who, think you, will follow
us far on a November night through these rocks and
precipices."
   "But listen!" exclaimed Henry; "the dragoons
are shouting to each other -- they miss us already."
   "Come to the point of this rock, and you may
see them," said Harvey, composedly setting him-
self down to rest. "Nay, they can see us -- notice,
they are pointing up with their fingers. There!
one has fired his pistol, but the distance is too
great for even a musket to carry upwards."
   "They will pursue us," cried the impatient
Henry; "let us be moving."
   "They will not think of such a thing," return-
ed the pedlar, picking the chicker-berries that
grew on the thin soil where he sat, and very de-
liberately chewing them, leaves and all, to refresh
his mouth. "What progress could they make here,
in their heavy boots and spurs, with their long
swords or even pistols. No, no -- they may go
back and turn out the foot, but the horse pass
through these defiles, where they can keep the sad-
dle, with fear and trembling. Come, follow me, Cap-
tain Wharton; we have a troublesome march be-
fore us, but I will bring you where none will think
of venturing this night."
   So saying, they both arose, and were soon hid
from view amongst the rocks and caverns of the
mountain.

-
    
