
   The conjecture of the pedlar was true. Mason
and his men dashed down the hill in pursuit, as
they supposed, of their victims, but on reaching
the bottom lands, they found only the deserted
hourses of the fugitives. Some little time was spent
in examining the woods near them, and in endea-
vouring to take the trail on such ground as might
enable the horse to pursue, when one of the party
descried the pedlar and Henry seated on the rock
already mentioned.
   "He's off," muttered Mason, eyeing Harvey
with savage fury, "he's off, and we are dis-
graced. By heavens, Washington will not trust
us with the keeping of a suspected tory, if we let
this rascal trifle in this manner with the corps;
and there sits the Englishman too, looking down
upon us with a mighty smile of benevolence. I
fancy that I can see it. Well, well, my lad, you
are comfortably seated, I will confess, and some-
thing better than dancing upon nothing; but you
are not to the west of the Harlaem river yet, and
I'll try your wind before you tell Sir Henry what
you have seen, or I'm no soldier."
   "Shall I fire, and frighten the pedlar?" asked
one of the men, drawing his pistol from the holster.
   "Aye, startle the birds from their perch -- let us
see how they can use the wing." The man fired
the pistol, and Mason continued -- "'Fore George,
I believe the scoundrels laugh at us. But home-
ward, or we shall have them rolling stones upon
our heads, and the Royal Gazettes teeming with
an account of a rebel regiment routed by two loy-
alists. They have told bigger lies than that be-
fore now."
   The dragoons moved sullenly after their officer
who rode towards their former quarters, musing
on the course it behoved him to pursue in the pre-
sent dilemma. It was twilight when Mason's par-

-
ty reached the dwelling, before the door of which
were collected a great number of the officers and
men, busily employed in giving and listening to
the most exaggerated accounts of the escape of
the spy. The mortified dragoons gave their
ungrateful tidings with the sullen air of disappoint-
ed men; and most of the officers gathered round
Mason, in consultation as to the steps that ought
to be taken. Miss Peyton and Frances were
breathless and unobserved listeners to all that pas-
sed between them, from the window of the cham-
ber immediately above their heads.
   "Something must be done, and that speedily,"
observed the commanding officer of the regiment
which lay encamped before the house; "this
English officer is doubtless an instrument in the
great blow aimed at us by the enemy lately; be-
sides, our honor is involved in his escape."
   "Let us beat the woods!" cried several at
once; "by morning we shall have them both
again."
   "Softly -- softly -- gentlemen," returned the co-
lonel; "no man can travel these hills after dark,
unless used to the passes. Nothing but horse
can do service in this business, and I presume
Lieutenant Mason hesitates to move without the
orders of his major?"
   "I certainly dare not," replied the subaltern,
gravely shaking his head, "unless you will take
the responsibility of an order; but Major Dun-
woodie will be back again in two hours, and we
can carry the tidings through the hills before day-
light; so that by spreading patroles across from
one river to the other, and offering a reward to
the country people, their escape will yet be im-
possible; unless they join the party that is said
to be out on the Hudson."
   "A very plausible plan," cried the colonel,

-
"and one that must succeed; but let a messenger
be despatched to Dunwoodie, or he may continue
at the ferry until it proves too late; though doubt-
less the runaways will lie in the mountains to-
night."
   To this suggestion Mason acquiesced, and a
courier was sent to the major, with the important
intelligence of the escape of Henry, and an inti-
mation of the necessity of his presence to conduct
the pursuit. With this arrangement the officers
separated.
   When Miss Peyton and her niece first learnt
the escape of Captain Wharton, it was with diffi-
culty they could credit their senses. They both
relied so implicitly on the success of Dunwoo-
die's exertions, that they thought the act, on the
part of their relative, extremely imprudent; but
it was now too late to mend it. In listening to the
conversations of the officers, both were struck
with the increased danger of Henry's situation, if
re-captured, and they trembled to think upon the
great exertions that would be made to accomplish
this object. Miss Peyton consoled herself, and
endeavoured to cheer her niece, with the probabi-
lity, that the fugitives would pursue their course
with unremitting diligence, so that they might
reach the Neutral Ground, before the horse would
carry down the tidings of their flight. The ab-
sense of Dunwoodie seemed to her all important,
and the artless spinster was anxiously devising
some project that might detain her kinsman, and
thus give her nephew the longest possible time.
But very different were the reflections of Frances.
She could no longer doubt, that the figure she
had seen on the hill was Birch, and she felt cer-
tain that instead of flying to the friendly forces
below, her brother would be taken to the myste-
rious hut to pass the night.

-
    
   Frances and her aunt held a long and animated
discussion by themselves, when the good spinster
reluctantly yielded to the representation of her
niece, and folding her in her arms, she kissed her
cold cheek, and fervently blessing the maid, al-
lowed her to depart on her errand of fraternal
love.

-
Chapter 14
CHAPTER XIV.
"And here, forlorn and lost I tread, 
With fainting steps, and slow; 
Where wilds immeasurably spread, 
Seem length'ning as I go." 
Goldsmith. 
    
   The night had set in dark and chilling, as Fran-
ces Wharton, with a beating heart but light steps,
moved through the little garden that laid behind
the farm-house which had been her brother's pri-
son, and took her way to the foot of the mountain,
where she had seen the figure of him that she
supposed to be the pedlar. It was still early, but
the darkness and dreary nature of a November
evening would at any other moment, or with less
inducement to exertion, have driven her back in
terror to the circle that she had left. Without
pausing to reflect, however, she flew over the
ground with a rapidity that seemed to bid defiance
to all impediments, nor stopped even to breathe,
until she had gone half the distance to the rock,
that she had marked as the spot, where Birch made
his appearance on that very morning.
   The good treatment of their women, is the surest
evidence that a people can give of their civiliza-
tion, and there is no nation which has more to
boast of in this respect than the Americans. Fran-
ces felt but little apprehension from the orderly
and quiet troops, who were taking their evening's
repast on the side of the highway opposite to the
