

-
field through which she was flying. They were
her countrymen, and she knew her sex would be
respected by the eastern militia, who composed
this body; but in the volatile and reckless cha-
racter of the southern horse, she had less confi-
dence. Outrages of any description were seldom
committed by the really American soldiery, but
the maid recoiled with exquisite delicacy from
even the appearance of humiliation. When, there-
fore, she heard the footsteps of a horse moving
slowly up the road, she shrunk, timidly, into a lit-
tle thicket of wood, which grew neglected around
the spring that bubbled from the side of a hillock
near her. The vidette, for such it proved to be,
passed her without noticing her form, which was
so enveloped as to be as little conspicuous as possi-
ble, humming a low air to himself, and probably
thinking of some other fair that he had left, in the
pride of her beauty, on the banks of the Potomac.
   Frances listened anxiously to his retreating foot-
steps, and as they died upon her ear, she ventured
from her place of secrecy, and advanced a short
distance into the field; where, startled at the
gloom, and appalled with the dreariness of the
prospect, the maid paused to reflect on what she
had undertaken. Throwing back the hood of her
cardinal, she sought the support of a tree, and
gazed towards the summit of the mountain that
was to be the goal of her enterprize. It rose
from the plain, like a huge pyramid, giving noth-
ing to the eye but its outlines. The pinnacle
could be faintly discerned in front of a lighter back
ground of clouds, between which a few glimmer-
ing stars occasionally twinkled in momentary
brightness, and then gradually became obscured
by the passing vapour, that was moving before the
wind, at a vast distance below the clouds them-
selves. Should she return, Henry and the pedlar

-
would most probably pass the night in fancied se-
curity, upon that very hill, towards which she was
straining her eyes in the vain hope of observing
some light that might encourage her to proceed.
The deliberate, and what to her seemed cold-
blooded, project of the officers, for the re-capture
of the fugitives, still rung in her ears, and stimu-
lated her to go on; but the solitude into which
she must venture -- the time -- the actual danger
of the ascent, and the uncertainty of her finding
the hut, or what was still more disheartening, the
chance that it might be occupied by unknown ten-
ants. and those of the worst description -- all urged
her to retreat.
   The increasing darkness was each moment ren-
dering objects less and less distinct, and the clouds
were gathering more gloomily in the rear of
the hill, until its form could no longer be discern-
ed. Frances threw back the profusion of her
rich curls with both hands on her temples, in or-
der to possess her senses in their utmost keenness;
but the towering hill was entirely lost to the eye.
At length she discovered a faint and twinkling
blaze in the direction in which she thought the
building stood, that by its reviving and receding
lustre, might be taken for the glimmering of a
fire. But the delusion vanished as the horizon
again cleared, and the star of the evening shone
forth from a cloud, after struggling hard as if for
existence, in all its unrivalled brilliancy. The
maid now saw the mountain to the left of where
the planet was shining through an opening in the
hills, and suddenly a streak of mellow light burst
upon the fantastic oaks that were thinly scattered
over its summit, and gradually moved down its
side, until the whole pile stood proudly erect un-
der the rays of the rising moon. Although it
would have been physically impossible for our he-

-
roine to advance without the aid of the friendly
light, which now gleamed in softened brightness
on the long line of level land before her; yet she
was not encouraged to proceed. If she could see
the goal of her wishes, she could also perceive the
difficulties that must attend her reaching it.
   While deliberating in distressing incertitude,
now shrinking with the timidity of her sex and
years from the enterprise, and now resolving to
rescue her brother at every hazard, the maid turn-
ed her looks towards the east, in earnest gaze at
the clouds which constantly threatened to involve
her again in comparative darkness. Had an ad-
der stung her, Frances could not have sprung with
greater celerity, than she recoiled from the object
against which she was leaning, and which she
for the first time, noticed. The two upright posts,
with a cross beam on their tops, and a rude plat-
form beneath, told but too plainly the nature of
the structure -- even the cord was suspended from
an iron staple, and swinging to and fro in the night
air. Frances hesitated no longer, but rather
flew than ran across the meadow, and was soon at
the base of the rock, where she hoped to find
something like a path to the summit of the moun-
tain. Here she was compelled to pause for breath,
and she improved the leisure by surveying the
ground around. The ascent was quite abrupt,
but she soon found a sheep path that wound among
the shelving rocks and through the trees, so as to
render her labour much less tiresome than it other-
wise would have been. Throwing a fearful glance
behind, the maid commenced her journey upwards.
Young, active, and impelled by the generous wish
of saving her brother, she moved up the hill with
elastic steps, and very soon emerged from the co-
ver of the woods into an open space of more level
ground, that had evidently been cleared of its

-
timber for the purpose of cultivation. But either
the war, or the sterility of the soil, had compelled
the adventurer to abandon the advantages that he
had obtained over the wilderness, and already the
bushes and briars were springing up afresh, as if
the plough had never traced its furrow through
the mould which nourished them.
   Frances felt her spirits invigorated by even these
faint vestiges of the labour of man, and walked
up the gentle acclivity with renewed hopes of suc-
cess. The path now diverged into so many differ-
ent directions, that she soon saw it would be useless
to follow their windings, and abandoning it, at the
first turn, she laboured forward towards what she
thought was the nearest point to the summit: the
cleared ground was soon past, and woods and rocks,
clinging to the precipitous sides of the mountain,
again presented themselves to her progress. Oc-
casionally, the path was to be seen running along
the verge of the clearing, and then striking off in-
to the scattering patches of grass and herbage,
but in no instance could she trace it upward.
Tufts of wool, hanging to the briars, sufficiently
denoted the origin of these tracks, and Frances
rightly conjectured, that, whoever descended the
mountain, would avail himself of their existence,
to lighten the labour. Seating herself on a stone,
the maid again paused to rest and to reflect; -- the
clouds were rising before the moon, as if repelled
by her brightness, and the whole scene at her feet
lay pictured in the softest colours.
   The white tents of the militia were stretched
in regular lines immediately beneath her. The
light was shining in the window of her aunt, whom
Frances easily fancied was standing watching the
mountain, racked with all the anxiety she might
be supposed to feel for her niece. Lanterns were
playing about in the stable-yard, where she knew

-
the horses of the dragoons were kept, and believ-
ing them to be preparing for their night march,
she again sprang upon her feet, and renewed her
toil.
   It was more than a quarter of a mile farther
that our heroine had to ascend, although she had
already conquered two-thirds of the height of the
mountain. But she was now without a path, or
any guide to direct her in her course: fortunately
the hill was conical, like most of the mountains
in that range, and by advancing upwards, she was
certain of at length reaching the desired hut,
which hung, as it were, on the very pinnacle.
Nearly an hour did the maid struggle with the nu-
merous difficulties that she was obliged to over-
come, when, having been repeatedly exhausted
with her efforts, and in several instances, in great
danger from falls, she succeeded in gaining the
small piece of table-land on the summit.
   Faint with her exertions, which had been unusu-
ally severe for her slender frame, she sunk on a
rock, to recover her strength and fortitude for the
approaching interview with her brother. A few
moments sufficed for this purpose, when she pro-
ceeded in quest of the hut. All of the neighbour-
ing hills were distinctly visible by the aid of the
moon, and Frances was able, where she stood, to
trace the route of the highway from the plains
into the mountains. By following this line with
her eyes, she soon discovered the point whence
she had seen the mysterious dwelling, and directly
opposite to that point she well knew the hut must
stand.
   The chilling air sighed through the leafless
branches of the gnarled and crooked oaks, as with
a step so light as hardly to rustle the dry leaves
over which she trod, Frances moved forward to
that part of the hill where she expected to find

-
this secluded habitation; but nothing could she
discern that in the least resembled a dwelling of
any sort. In vain she examined into every recess
of the rocks, or inquisitively explored every part
of the summit that she thought could hold the
tenement of the pedlar. No hut, nor any vestige
of a human being, could she trace. The idea of
her solitude struck on the terrified mind of the
maid, and approaching to the edge of a shelving
rock, she bent forward to gaze on the signs of life
in the vale, when a ray of keen light dazzled her
eyes, and a warm air diffused itself over her whole
frame. Recovering from her surprise, Frances
looked on the ledge beneath her, and at once per-
ceived that she stood directly over the object of
her search. A hole through its roof, afforded a
passage to the smoke, which, as it blew aside,
showed her a clear and cheerful fire crackling and
snapping on a rude hearth of stone. The approach
to the front of the hut, was by a winding path
around the point of the rock on which she stood,
and by this she advanced to its door.
   Three sides of this singular edifice, if such it
could be called, were composed of logs laid alter-
nately on each other, to a little more than the
height of a man; and the fourth was formed by the
rock against which it leaned. The roof was made
of the bark of trees, laid in long strips from the
rock to its eaves; -- the fissures between the logs
had been stuffed with clay, which in many places
had fallen out, and dried leaves were made use of
as a substitute to keep out the wind: a single win-
dow of four panes of glass was in front, but a
board carefully closed it in such a manner, as to
emit no light from the fire within. After pausing
sometime to view this singularly constructed
hiding-place, for such Frances knew it must be,
she applied her eye to a crevice to explore the
