

-
scene within. There was no lamp nor candle, but
the blazing fire of dry wood made the interior of
the hut light enough to read by. In one corner
lay a bed of straw, with a pair of blankets thrown
carelessly over it, as if left where they had last
been used by the occupant. Against the walls
and rock were suspended, from pegs forced into
the crevices, various garments, and such as were
apparently fitted for all ages and conditions, and
for either sex. British and American uniforms
hung peaceably by the side of each other; and on
the peg that supported a gown of striped calico,
such as was the usual country wear, was also de-
pending a well powdered wig -- in short, the attire
was numerous, and as various as if a whole parish
were to be equipped from this one wardrobe.
   In the angle against the rock, and opposite to the
fire which was burning in the other corner, was an
open cup-board, that held a plate or two, a mug. and
the remains of some broken meat. Before the fire
was a table, with one of its legs fractured, and
made of rough boards; these, with a single stool,
composed the furniture, if we except a few arti-
cles for cooking. A book that by its shape and
size appeared to be a bible, was lying on the ta-
ble, unopened. But it was the occupant of the
hut in whom Frances was chiefly interested. -- 
This was a man, sitting on the stool, with his
head leaning on his hand, in such a manner as
to conceal his features, and deeply occupied in
examining some open papers before him. On the
table lay a pair of curiously and richly mounted
horseman's pistols, and the handle of a sheathed
rapier of exquisite workmanship, protruded from
between the legs of the gentleman, one of whose
hands carelessly rested on its guard. The tall sta-
ture of this unexpected tenant of the hut, and his
form, much more athletic than that of either Harvey

-
or her brother, told Frances, without the aid of his
dress, that it was neither of those whom she sought.
A close surtout was buttoned high in the throat of
the stranger, and parting at his knees, showed
breeches of buff, with military boots and spurs.
His hair was dressed so as to expose the whole
face, and, after the fashion of that day, was pro-
fusely powdered. A round hat was laid on the
stones that formed a paved floor to the hut, as if
to make room for a large map, which, among other
papers, occupied the table.
   This was an unexpected event to the maid. -- 
She had been so confident that the figure she had
twice seen was the pedlar, that on learning his
agency in her brother's escape, she did not in the
least doubt of finding them both in the place, which,
she now discovered, was occupied by another
and a stranger's form. She stood earnestly look-
ing through the crevice, hesitating whether to re-
tire. or to wait under the expectation of yet meet-
ing with Henry, as the stranger moved his hand
from before his eyes, and raised his face apparent-
ly in deep musing, when Frances instantly recog-
nized the benevolent and strongly marked, but
composed features of Harper.
   All that Dunwoodie had said of his power and
disposition -- all that he had himself promised her
brother, and all the confidence that had been cre-
ated by his dignified and paternal manner, rushed
across the mind of Frances, who threw open the
door of the hut, and falling at his feet, clasped his
knees with her arms, as she cried -- 
   "Save him -- save him -- save my brother -- re-
member your promise, and save him!"
   Harper had risen as the door opened, and there
was a slight movement of one hand towards his
pistols, but it was cool, and instantly checked, as
Frances entered. He raised the hood of the car-

-
dinal which had fallen over her features, and ex-
claimed, with some uneasiness -- 
   "Miss Wharton! But you cannot be alone!"
   "There is none here but my God and you; and
by his sacred name, I conjure you to remember
your promise, and save my brother."
   Harper gently raised her from her knees, and
placed her on the stool he resigned, begging her
at the same time to be composed, and to acquaint
him with all that she knew. This Frances in-
stantly did, with a hurried voice, ingenuously ad-
mitting him to a knowledge of her own views in
wisiting that lone spot at that hour, and by herself.
   It was at all times difficult to probe the thoughts
of one who held his passions in such disciplined
subjection as Harper, but still there was a lighting
of his thoughtful eye, and a slight unbending of
his muscles, as the maid proceeded in her narra-
tive. His interest, as she dwelt upon the manner
of Henry's escape and the flight to the woods, was
deep and manifest, and he listened to the remain-
der of her tale with a marked expression of bene-
volent indulgence. Her apprehensions that her
brother might still be too late through the moun-
tains, seemed to have much weight with him. for,
as she concluded, he walked a turn or two across
the hut, in silent musing.
   Frances hesitated, and unconsciously played
with the handle of one of the pistols, and the pale-
ness that her fears had spread over her fine
features, began to give place to a rich tint, as af-
ter a short pause she added -- 
   "We can depend much on the friendship of
Major Dunwoodie, but his sense of honour is so
pure, that -- that -- notwithstanding his -- his -- feel-
ings -- he will conceive it to be his duty to appre-
hend my brother again. Besides, he thinks there

-
will be no danger in so doing, as he relies greatly
on your interference."
   "On mine!" said Harper, raising his eyes in
surprise."
   "Yes, on yours. When we told him of your
kind language, he at once assured us all that you
had the power, and if you had promised, would
have the inclination, to procure Henry's pardon."
   "Said he more?" asked Harper, glancing a
quick and searching eye towards the maiden."
   "Nothing but reiterated assurances of Henry's
safety -- even now he is in quest of you."
   "Miss Wharton," said Harper, advancing with
calm but impressive dignity, "that I bear no mean
part in the unhappy struggle between England and
America, it might be now useless to deny. You
owe your brother's escape this night to my know-
ledge of his innocence, and the remembrance of
my word. Major Dunwoodie is mistaken, when he
says that I might openly have procured his par-
don. I now can controul his fate, and I pledge
to you a word which has some influence with Wash-
ington, that means shall be taken to prevent his
recapture. But from you also, I exact a promise,
that this interview, and all that has passed be-
tween us, remains confined to your own bosom,
until you have my permission to speak upon the
subject."
   Frances gave the desired assurance, and he con-
tinued -- 
   "The pedlar and your brother will soon be here,
but I must not be seen by the royal officer, or the
life of Birch might be the forfeiture."
   "Never!" cried Frances, ardently; "Henry
could never be so base as to betray the man who
saved him."
   "It is no childish game that we are now play-
ing, Miss Wharton. Men's lives and fortunes

-
hang upon slender threads, and nothing must be
left to accident that can be guarded against. Did
Sir Heary Clinton know that the pedlar held com-
munien with me, and under such circumstances,
the life of the miserable man would be taken in-
stantly -- therefore, as you value human blood, or
remember the rescue of your brother, be prudent,
and be silent. -- Communicate what you know to
them both, and urge them to instant departure -- 
if they can reach the last picquets of our army
before morning's dawn, it shall be my care that
there are none to intercept them. -- There is bet-
ter work for Major Dunwoodie, than to be expo-
sing the life of his friend."
   While Harper was speaking, he carefully rolled
up the map he had been studying, and placed it, to-
gether with sundry papers that were also open, in-
to his pocket. He was still occupied in this man-
ner, when the voice of the pedlar, talking in unu-
sually loud tones, was heard directly over their
heads.
