
   "Stand further this way, Captain Wharton, and
you can see the tents in the moonshine -- but let
them mount, and ride; I have a nest here that
will hold us both, and we will go in at our lei-
sure."
   "And where is this nest?" cried Henry, with a
voice of exultation; "I confess that I have eaten
but little the last two days, and I crave some of
the cheer that you mentioned."
   "Hem" -- said the pedlar, exerting his voice
still more; "hem -- this fog has given me a cold;
but move slow -- and be careful not to slip, or you
may land on the baggonet of the sentinel on the
flats -- 'tis a steep hill to rise, but one can go
down it with all ease."
   Harper pressed his finger on his lip, to remind
Frances of her promised silence, and taking his

-
pistols and hat, so that no vestige of his visit re-
mained, retired deliberately to a far corner of the
hut, where, lifting several articles of dress, he en-
tered a recess in the rock, and letting them fall
again, was hid from view. Frances noticed, by the
strong fire-light, as he entered, that it was a natu-
ral cavity, and contained nothing but a few more
articles for domestic use.
   The surprise of Henry and the pedlar, on en-
tering and finding Frances in possession of the hut,
may be easily imagined. Without waiting for ex-
planations or questions, the warm-hearted girl
flew into the arms of her brother, and gave a vent
to her emotions in tears. But the pedlar seemed
struck with very different feelings. His first look
was at the fire, which had been recently supplied
with fuel; he then drew open a small drawer of
the table, and looked a little alarmed at finding it
empty -- 
   "Are you alone, Miss Fanny?" he asked in a
quick voice; "You did not come here alone?"
   "As you see me, Mr. Birch," said Frances,
raising herself from her brother's arms, and turn-
ing an expressive glance towards the secret ca-
vern, that the quick eye of the pedlar instantly un-
derstood.
   "But why, and wherefore are you here?" ex-
claimed her astonished brother; "and how knew
you of this place at all?"
   Frances entered at once into a brief detail of
what had occurred at the house since their depar-
ture, and the motives which induced her to seek
them.
   "But," said Birch, "why follow us here, when
we were left on the opposite hill?"
   The maid related the glimpse that she had caught
of the hut and the pedlar, in her passage through
the highlands, as well as her view of him on that
day; and her immediate conjecture that the fugi-

-
tives would seek the shelter of this habitation for
the night. Birch examined her features, as with
open ingenuousness she related the simple inci-
dents that had made her mistress of his secret,
and as she ended, he sprang upon his feet, and
striking the window with the stick in his hand, de-
molished it at a blow.
   "'Tis but little of luxury or comfort that I
know," he said, "but even that little cannot be
enjoyed in safety. -- Miss Wharton," he added, ad-
vancing before Fanny, and speaking with that bit-
ter melancholy that was common to him; "I am
hunted through these hills like a beast of the for-
est; but whenever, tired with my toils, I can reach
this spot, poor and dreary as it is, I can spend my
solitary nights in safety. -- WIll you aid to make
the life of a wretch still more miserable?"
   "Never!" cried Frances, with fervour; "your
secret is safe with me."
   "Major Dunwoodie -- " said the pedlar slowly,
turning an eye upon her that red her soul.
   Frances sunk her head upon her bosom for a
moment in shame, then elevating her face glowing
with fire, added with enthusiasm -- 
   "Never, never -- Harvey, as God may hear my
prayers."
   The pedlar seemed satisfied; for he drew back,
and watching his opportunity, unseen by Henry,
slipped behind the skreen, and entered the cavern.
   Frances, and her brother, who thought his com-
panion had passed through the door, continued
conversing on the latter's situation for several
minutes, when the maid repeatedly urged the ne-
cessity of expedition on his part, in order to pre-
cede Dunwoodie, from whose sense of duty they
knew they had no escape. The Captain took out
his pocket book and wrote a few lines with his
pencil, then folding the paper, he handed it to his
sister -- 

-
    
   "Frances," he said, "you have this night pro-
ved yourself to be an incomparable woman. As
you love me, give that unopened to Dunwoodie,
and remember, that two hours of time may save
my life."
   "I will -- I will -- but why delay? why not fly,
and improve these precious moments?"
   "Your sister says well, Captain Wharton," ex-
claimed Harvey, who had re-entered unseen; "we
must go at once. Here is food to eat as we tra-
vel."
   "But who is to see this fair creature in safety?"
cried the captain. "I can never desert my sister
in such a place as this."
   "Leave me! leave me -- " said Frances; "I
can descend as I came up. Do not doubt me -- 
you know not my courage nor my strength."
   "I have not known you, dear girl, it is true;
but now, as I learn your value, can I quit you
here? -- no -- never -- never."
   "Captain Wharton!" said Birch, throwing
open the door, "You can trifle with your own
lives, if you have many to spare: I have but one,
and must nurse it. -- Do I go alone or not?"
   "Go -- go -- dear Henry," said Frances, em-
bracing him; "go -- remember our father -- re-
member Sarah -- " She waited not for his answer,
but gently forced him through the door, and
closed it with her own hands.
   For a short time there was a warm debate be-
tween Henry and the pedlar; but the latter finally
prevailed, and the maid heard the successive
plunges, as they went down the side of the moun-
tain at a rapid rate, and they were soon out of
hearing.
   Soon after the noise of their departure had
ceased Harper re-appeared. He took the arm
of Frances in silence, and led her from the hut.
The way seemed familiar to him as, ascending to

-
the ledge above them, he led the maid across the
table land, tenderly pointing out the little difficul-
ties in their route, and cautioning her against in-
jury.
   Frances felt as she walked by the side of his ma-
jestic person, that she was supported by a man of
no common stamp. The firmness of his step and
the composure of his manner, seemed to indicate
a mind that was settled and resolved. By taking
a route over the back of the hill, they descended
with great expedition and but little danger. The
distance it had taken Frances an hour to conquer,
was passed by Harper and his companion in ten
minutes, and they entered the open space, already
mentioned. He struck into one of the sheep paths,
and crossing the clearing with rapid strides, they
came suddenly upon a horse, caparisoned for a
rider of no mean rank. The noble beast snorted
and pawed the earth as his master approached
and replaced the pistols in the holsters.
   Harper then turned, and taking the hand of
Frances, spoke as follows:
