
   "Silence!" said Dunwoodie, "this must be
inquired into closely, gentlemen; there is no out-
let but the door, and there he could not pass, un-
less the sentinel connived at his escape or was
asleep on his post -- call up all the guard?"
   As these men were not paraded, curiosity had
already drawn them to the place, and they all
denied that any person had passed out, excepting
one, and he acknowledged that Betty had gone
by him, but pleaded his orders in justification.
   "You lie, you thief -- you lie!" shouted Betty,
who had impatiently listened to his exculpation;
"would you slanderize a lone woman, by saying
she walks a camp at midnight? -- Here have I been
sleeping the long night as sweetly as the sucking
babe."
   "Here, sir," said the sergeant, turning respect-
fully to Dunwoodie, "is something written in my
bible that was not in it before; for having no fami-
ly to record, I would never suffer any scribbling
in the sacred book."
   One of the officers read aloud -- "These certi-
fy, that if suffered to get free, it is by God's help
alone, to whose divine aid I humbly recommend
myself. I'm forced to take the woman's clothes,
but in her pocket is a recompense. Witness my
hand -- Harvey Birch."
   "What!" roared Betty, in consternation, "has
the thief robbed a lone woman of her all -- hang

-
him -- catch him and hang him, major, if there's
law or justice in the land."
   "Examine your pocket," said one of the young-
sters, who was enjoying the scene, careless of the
cause or its consequences.
   "Ah! faith," cried the washerwoman, produ-
cing a guinea; "but he is a jewel of a pedlar -- 
long life and a brisk trade to him say I -- he is
welcome to the duds -- and if he is ever hung, many
a bigger rogue will go free."
   Dunwoodie turned to leave the apartment, and
saw Captain Lawton standing with folded arms,
contemplating the scene in profound silence.
His manner, so different from his usual impetu-
osity and zeal, struck his commander as singular
-- their eyes met, and they walked together for a
few minutes in close conversation, when Dun-
woodie returned and dismissed the guard to their
place of rendezvous. Sergeant Hollister, how-
ever, continued alone with Betty, who having
found none of her vestments disturbed but such as
the guinea more than paid for, was in high good-
humour for the interview. The washerwoman had
for a long time looked on the veteran with the
eyes of affection, and had secretly determined
within herself to remove the dangers from a lone
woman, by making the sergeant the successor of
her late husband. For some time the trooper had
seemed to flatter her preference, and Betty con-
ceiving that her violence had mortified the feel-
ings of her lover, was determined to make him
all the amends in her power. Besides, rough
and uncouth as she was, the washerwoman had
still enough of her sex to know that the moments
of reconciliation were the moments of her power.
She, therefore, poured out a glass of her morning
beverage, and handed it to her companion as she
observed -- 

-
    
   "A few warm words between friends are a tri-
fle, you must be knowing, sargeant. It was Mi-
chael Flannagan that I ever calumnated the most
when I was loving him the best."
   "Michael was a good soldier and a brave man,"
said the warrior, finishing the glass; "our troop
was covering the flank of his regiment when he
fell, and I rode over his body myself more than
once during the day -- poor fellow, he lay on his
back, and looked as composed as if he had died a
natural death after a year's consumption."
   "Oh! Michael was a great consumer, and be
sartain," said the disconsolate widow; "two like
us make dreadful inroads in the stock, sargeant.
But you're a sober, discrate man, Mister Hollis-
ter, and would be a help-mate indeed."
   "Why, Mrs. Flannagan," said the veteran with
great solemnity, "I've tarried to speak on a sub-
ject that lies heavy at my heart, and will now
open my mind, if you've leisure to listen."
   "Is it listen?" cried the impatient woman;
"and I'd listen to you, sargeant, if the officers ne-
ver ate another mouthful -- but take another drop,
dear -- and it will incourage you to spake freely."
   "I am already bold enough in so good a cause,"
returned the veteran, rejecting her bounty; "but,
Betty, do you think it was really the Pedlar-Spy
that I placed in this room the last night?"
   "And who should it be else, darling?"
   "The evil-one."
   "What, the divil?"
   "Ay, even Belzebub, disguised as the pedlar,
and those fellows we thought to be Skinners were
his imps," said the sergeant, with a most porten-
tous gravity in his countenance.
   "Well sure, sargeant, dear," said Betty, "you
are but little out this time, any way -- for if the

-
divil's imps go at large in the county West-
Chester, sure it is the Skinners themselves."
   "No, but Mrs. Flannagan," interrupted her com-
panion, "I mean in their incarnate spirits -- the
evil one knew that there was no one we would
arrest sooner than the pedlar, Birch, and took on
his appearance to gain admission to your room."
   "And what should the divil be wanting of me,"
cried Betty, tartly, "and isn't there divils enough
in the corps already, without one's coming from
the bottomless pit to frighten a lone body."
   " 'Twas, 'twas in mercy to you, Betty, that he
came. You see he vanish'd through the door in
your form, which is a symbol of your fate, unless
you mend your life. Oh! I noticed how he trem-
bled when I gave him the good book. Would any
christian, think you, my dear Betty, write in a bible
in this way; unless it might be the matter of births
and deaths, and such like chronicles?"
   The washerwoman was pleased with the soft-
ness of her lover's manner, but dreadfully scan-
dalized at his insinuation: she, however, preserv-
ed her temper, and, with the quickness of her own
country's people, rejoined -- 
   "And would the divil have paid for the clothes,
think ye. Aye! and overpaid."
   "Doubtless, the money is base," said the ser-
geant, a little staggered at such an evidence of ho-
nesty in one he thought so meanly of. "He tempt-
ed me with his glittering coin, but the Lord gave
me strength to resist."
   "The goold looks well," said the washerwoman,
"But I'll change it, any way, with Captain Jack,
the day -- he is nivir a bit afeard of any divil of
them all."
   "Betty, Betty," said her companion, "do not
speak so disreverently of the evil spirit, he is ever

-
at hand, and will owe you a grudge for your lan-
guage."
   "Pooh! if he has any bowels at all, he won't
mind a fillip or two from a poor lone woman," re-
turned the washerwoman. "I'm sure no other
christian would."
   "But the dark one has no bowels, except to
devour the children of men," said the sergeant,
looking around him in horror, "and it's best to
make friends every where; for there is no telling
what may happen 'till it comes. But, Betty, no
man could have got out of this place, and passed
all the sentinels, without being known -- take aw-
ful warning from the visit, therefore."
