
   "You have this night saved your brother, Miss
Wharton. It would not be proper for me to ex-
plain why there are limits to my ability to serve
him, but if you can detain the horse for two hours,
he is safe. After what you have already done, I
can believe you equal to any duty. God has de-
nied to me children, young lady, but if it had been
his blessed will that my marriage should not have
been childless, such a treasure as yourself would I
have asked from his mercy. But you are my child.
All who dwell in this broad land are my children
and my care, and take the blessing of one who
hopes yet to meet you in happier days."
   As he spoke, with a solemnity that touched
Frances to the heart, he laid his hand impressive-
ly upon her head. The maid turned her face to-

-
wards him, and the hood again falling back, ex-
posed her lovely features to the fulness of the
moon-beams. A tear was glistening on either
cheek, and her mild blue eyes were gazing upon
him in reverence. Harper bent and pressed a
paternal kiss upon her forehead, and continued -- 
   "Any of these sheep-paths will take you to the
plain; but here we must part -- I have much to do
and far to ride -- forget me in all but your pray-
ers."
   He then threw himself into his saddle, and lift-
ing his hat with studied politeness, rode towards
the back of the mountain, descending at the same
time, and was soon hid by the trees. Frances
sprang forward with a lightened heart, and taking
the first path that led downwards, in a few mi-
nutes reached the plain in safety. While busied in
stealing privately through the meadows towards
the house, the noise of horse approaching, start-
led her, and she felt how much more was to be ap-
prehended from man, in some situations, than from
solitude. -- Hiding her form in the angle of a fence
near the road, she remained quiet for a moment,
and watched their passage. A small party of dra-
goons, whose dress was different from the Virgi-
nians, passed at a brisk trot, and were followed by
a gentleman, enveloped in a large cloak, who
she at once knew to be Harper. Behind him
rode a black in livery, and two youths in uniforms
brought up the rear. -- Instead of taking the road
that led by the encampment, they turned short to
the left, and entered the hills.
   Wondering who this unknown but powerful
friend of her brother could be, the maid glided
across the fields, and using due precautions in ap-
proaching the dwelling, regained her residence
undiscovered and in safety.

-
Chapter 15
CHAPTER XV.
     "Hence bashful cunning! 
And prompt me, plain and holy innocence! 
I am your wife, if you will marry me -- " 
Tempest. 
    
   On joining Miss Peyton, Frances learnt that
Dunwoodie was not yet returned; although, with
a view to relieve Henry from the importunities of
the supposed fanatic, he had desired a very res-
pectable divine of their own church, to ride up
from the river and offer his services. This gen-
tleman was already arrived, and spent the half-
hour he had been there, in a sensible and well bred
conversation with the spinster, that in no degree
touched upon their domestic affairs.
   To the eager inquiries of Miss Peyton, relative
to her success in her romantic excursion, Frances
could say no more, than that she was bound to
be silent, and to recommend the same precau-
tion to the good maiden also. There was a smile
that played around the beautiful mouth of Fran-
ces, while she uttered this injunction, chasing
away the momentary gleam of distrust that cloud-
ed her features, which satisfied her aunt that all
was as it should be. She was urging her niece to
take some refreshment after her fatiguing expedi-
tion, with the kind-hearted consideration of her
habits, when the noise of a horseman riding to
the door, announced the return of the major.

-
He had been found by the courier, who was des-
patched by Mason, impatiently waiting the return
of Harper to the ferry, and immediately flew to
the place where his friend had been confined,
harassed by many different reflections. The
heart of Frances bounded with violence, as she
listened to his approaching footsteps. It wanted
yet an hour to the termination of the shortest pe-
riod that the pedlar had fixed as the time neces-
sary, in which to effect his escape. Even Harper,
powerful and well disposed as he acknowledged
himself to be, had laid great stress upon the im-
portance of detaining the Virginians from pursuit
during that hour. The maid, however, had not
time to rally her thoughts, before Dunwoodie
entered one door, as Miss Peyton, with the rea-
diness of female instinct, retired through another.
   The countenance of Peyton was flushed, and
there was an air of vexation and disappointment
that pervaded his whole manner -- 
   "'Twas imprudent, Frances; nay, it was un-
kind," he cried, throwing himself into a chair,
"to fly at the very moment that I had assured
him of his safety. I can almost persuade myself
that you delight in creating points of difference in
our feelings and duties."
   "In our duties there may very possibly be a
difference," returned the maid, approaching
near to where he sat, and leaning her slender
form slightly against the wall; "but not in our feel-
ings, Peyton -- You must certainly rejoice in the
escape of Henry from death!"
   "There was no death impending. He had the
promise of Harper; and it is a word never to be
doubted. -- Oh! Frances! Frances! had you
known this man, you would never have distrusted
his assurance; nor would you have again reduced
me to this distressing alternative."

-
    
   "What alternative?" asked Frances, pitying
his emotions deeply, but eagerly seizing upon
every circumstance to prolong the interview.
   "What alternative! am I not compelled to spend
this night in the saddle, to re-capture your bro-
ther, when I had thought to have laid it on my
pillow, with the happy consciousness of contri-
buting to his release. You make me seem your
enemy; me, who would cheerfully shed the last
drop of my blood in your service. I repeat, Fran-
ces it was rash -- it was unkind -- it was a sad, sad
mistake."
   The maid bent towards him, and timidly took
one of his hands, while with the other she gently
removed the raven curls from his burning brow,
as she said -- 
   "But why go at all, dear Peyton? -- you have
done much for our country, and she cannot exact
such a sacrifice as this at your hands."
   "Frances! Miss Wharton!" exclaimed the
youth, springing on his feet, and pacing the floor
with a cheek that burnt with fire through its brown
covering, and an eye that sparkled with conscious
integrity; "it is not my country, but my honor,
that requires the sacrifice. Has he not fled from
a guard of my own corps? But for this I might
have been spared the blow! -- But if the eyes of
the Virginians are blinded to deception and arti-
fice, their horses are swift of foot, and their sa-
bres keen. We will see before to-morrow's sun
who it is will presume to hint, that the beauty of
the sister furnished a mask to skreen the brother.
Yes -- yes -- I should like even now," he continu-
ed, laughing bitterly, "to hear the villain, who
would dare to surmise that such a treachery ex-
isted!"
   "Peyton -- dear Peyton," said Frances, recoil-

