
-
ing in terror from his angry eye, "you curdle my
blood -- would you kill my brother?"
   "Would I not die for him!" exclaimed Dun-
woodie with a softened voice, as he turned to her
more mildly; "you know I would; but I am
distracted with the cruel surmise to which this
step of Henry's subjects me. What will Wash-
ington think of me, should he learn that I ever
became your husband?"
   "If that alone impels you to act so harshly
towards my brother," returned Frances, with a
slight tremor in her voice, "let it never happen
for him to learn."
   "And this is consoling me, Frances!" cried
her lover; "what a commentary on my suffer-
ings!"
   "Nay, dear Dunwoodie, I meant nothing harsh
nor unkind; but are you not making us both of
more consequence to Washington, than the truth
will justify?"
   "I trust that my name is not entirely unknown
to the commander in chief," said the major a lit-
tle proudly; "nor are you as obscure as your
modesty would make you. I believe you, Fran-
ces, when you say that you pity me, and it must
be my task to continue worthy of such feelings -- 
But I waste the precious moments; we must go
through the hills to-night, that we may be refresh-
ed in time for the duty of to-morrow. Mason is
already waiting for my orders to mount; and
Frances I leave you, with a heavy heart -- pity
me, but feel no concern for your brother -- he
must again become a prisoner, but every hair of
his head is sacred."
   "Stop! Dunwoodie, I conjure you," cried Fran-
ces, gasping for breath, as she noticed that the
hand of the clock still wanted many minutes to the
desired hour; "before you go on your errand of

-
fastidious duty, read this note that Henry has left
for you, and which, doubtless, he thought he was
writing to the friend of his youth."
   "Frances, I excuse your feelings, but the time
will come, when you will do me justice."
   "That time is now," said the maid, extending
her hand, unable any longer to feign a displeasure
that she did not feel.
   "Where got you this note!" exclaimed the
youth, glancing his eyes over its contents. "Poor
Henry, you are indeed my friend! If any one
wishes me happiness, it is you."
   "He does, he does," cried Frances, eagerly;
"he wishes you every happiness; believe what he
tells you -- every word is true."
   "I do believe him, lovely girl, and he refers me
to you for its confirmation. Would that I could
trust equally to your affections!"
   "You may, Peyton," said Frances, looking up
with innocent confidence towards her lover.
   "Then read for yourself, and verify your words,"
interrupted Dunwoodie, holding the note towards
her with eyes that sparkled with every passion but
anger.
   Frances received it in astonishment and read the
following:
   "Life is too precious to be trusted to uncertain-
ties. I leave you, Peyton, unknown to all but
Cæsar, and I recommend him to your mercy. But
there is a care that weighs me to the earth. Look
at my aged and infirm parent. He will be stig-
matised for the supposed crime of his son. Look
at those helpless sisters that I leave behind me
without a protector. Prove to me that you love
us all. Let the clergyman that you will bring
with you, unite you this night to Frances, and be-
come at once, brother, son, and husband."

-
    
   The paper fell from the hands of Frances, and
she endeavoured to raise her eyes to the face of
Dunwoodie, but they sunk abashed before his ea-
ger gaze.
   "What say you!" said Peyton, with an insinu-
ating voice; "am I worthy of this confidence?
will you send me out against your brother this
night, to meet my own brother? or will it be the
officer of Congress in quest of the officer of Bri-
tain?"
   "And would you do less of your duty, because
I am your wife, Major Dunwoodie? in what de-
gree would it better the condition of Henry?"
   "Henry, I repeat, is safe. The word of Har-
per is his guarantee; but I will show the world a
bridegroom," continued the youth, perhaps de-
ceiving himself a little, "Who is equal to the du-
ty of arresting the brother of his bride."
   "And will the world comprehend it all?" said
Frances, with a musing air that lighted a thou-
sand hopes in the bosom of her lover. In fact,
the temptation was mighty -- indeed, there seemed
no other way to detain Dunwoodie until the fa-
tal hour had elapsed. The words of Harper him-
self, who had so lately told her that openly he
could do but little for Henry, and that every thing
depended upon the gaining of time, were deeply
engraved upon her memory. Perhaps there was
also a fleeting thought of the possibility of an eter-
nal separation from her lover, should he proceed
and bring back her brother to punishment. It is
difficult at all times to analyze human emotions,
and they pass through the sensitive heart of a
woman with the rapidity and nearly with the vivid-
ness of lightning.
   "Why do I tarry, dear Frances," cried Dun-
woodie, who was studying her varying counte-

-
nance with rapture; "a few minutes might give
me a husband's claim to protect you."
   The brain of Frances whirled. She turned an
anxious eye to the clock, and the hand seemed to
linger over its face, as if with intent to torture her.
   "Speak, my Frances," murmured Dunwoodie;
"may I summon my good kinswoman -- determine,
for time presses."
   Frances endeavoured to reply, but could only
whisper something that was inaudible, but which
her lover, with the privilege of immemorial cus-
tom, construed into assent. He turned and flew
to the door, when the maid recovered her voice -- 
   "Stop, Peyton; I cannot enter into such a
solemn engagement with a fraud upon my con-
science. I have seen Henry since his escape, and
time is all important to him. Here is my hand;
it is now freely yours, if you will not reject it."
   "Reject it!" cried the delighted youth; "I
take it as the richest gift of heaven. There is
time enough for us all. Two hours will take me
through the hills, and by noon to-morrow, I will
return with Washington's pardon for your brother,
and Henry will help to enliven our nuptials."
   "Then, meet me here in ten minutes," said
Frances, greatly relieved by unburthening her
mind, and filled with the hope of securing Henry's
safety, "and I will return and take those vows
which will bind me to you forever."
   Dunwoodie paused only to press her once to
his bosom, and flew to communicate his wishes to
the priest.
   Miss Peyton received the avowal of her niece,
with infinite astonishment and a little displeasure.
It was violating all the order and decorum of a
wedding to get it up so hastily, and with so little
ceremony. But Frances, with modest firmness,
declared that her resolution was taken -- she had

