
-
long possessed the consent of her friends, and their
nuptials for months had only waited her pleasure.
She had now promised Dunwoodie, and it was her
wish to comply -- more she dare not say without
committing herself, by entering into explanations
that might endanger Birch, or Harper, or both. Un-
used to contention, and really much attached to
her kinsman, the feeble objections of Miss Peyton
gave way to the firmness of her niece. Mr. Whar-
ton was too completely a convert to the doctrine
of passive obedience and non-resistance, to with-
stand any solicitation from an officer of Dun-
woodie's influence in the rebel armies, and the
maid returned to the apartment, accompanied by
her father and aunt, at the expiration of the time
that she had fixed. Dunwoodie and the clergy-
man were already there. Frances silently, and
without the affectation of reserve, placed in his
hand the wedding ring of her own mother, and af-
ter some little time spent in arranging Mr. Whar-
ton and herself, Miss Peyton suffered the ceremo-
ny to proceed.
   The clock stood directly before the wandering
eyes of Frances, and she turned many an anxious
glance at the dial -- but soon the solemn language
of the priest caught her attention, and her mind
became intent upon the vows she was uttering. -- 
It was quickly over, and as the clergyman closed
the words of benediction, the clock told the hour
of nine. This was the time that Harper had
deemed so important, and Frances felt as if a
mighty load was at once removed from her
heart.
   Dunwoodie folded her in his arms; saluted the
spinster again and again, and shook Mr. Wharton
and the divine repeatedly by the hands. In the
midst of this excess of rapture a tap was heard at
the door. -- It was opened, and Mason appeared -- 

-
    
   "We are in the saddle," said the Lieutenant,
"and with your permission will lead on; as you
are so well mounted, you can overtake us at your
leisure."
   "Yes, yes -- my good fellow -- march," cried
Dunwoodie, gladly seizing an excuse to linger; "I
will reach you at the first halt."
   The subaltern retired to execute these orders,
and was followed by Mr. Wharton and the divine.
   "Now, Peyton," said Frances, "it is indeed a
brother that you seek; I am sure I need not
caution you in his behalf, should you unfortunate-
ly find him."
   "Say fortunately," cried the youth; "for I am
determined he shall yet dance at my wedding.
Would that I could win him to our cause -- it is the
cause of his country, and I could fight with more
pleasure, Frances, with your brother by my side."
   "Oh! mention it not! you awaken terrible re-
flections."
   "I will not mention it," returned her husband;
"but I must now leave you. Tom Mason moved
off at a famous rate, and the fellow has no or-
ders. -- -But the sooner I go, Frances, the sooner I
will return."
   The noise of a horseman was heard approaching
the house, with great speed, and Dunwoodie was
yet taking leave of his bride and her aunt, when an
officer was shown into the room by his own man.
   The gentleman wore the dress of an aid-de-
camp, and the Major at once knew him to form
part of the family of Washington.
   "Major Dunwoodie," he said, after bowing
courteously to the ladies; "the Commander-in-
Chief has directed me to give you these orders."
He executed his mission, and pleading duty took
his leave immediately.

-
    
   "Here, indeed!" cried the Major "is an unexpect-
ed turn in the whole affair; but I understand it -- -
Harper has got my letter, and already we feel his
influence."
   "Have you news affecting Henry," cried Fran-
ces, springing to his side.
   "Listen -- and you shall judge."
   "Sir
    -- Upon receipt of this, you will concen-
trate your squadron, so as to be in front of the en-
emy's covering party to their foragers, by ten
o'clock to-morrow, on the heights of Croton;
where you will find a body of foot to support you.
The escape of the English spy has been reported
to me, but his arrest is unimportant, compared
with the duty I now give you. You will, there-
fore, recal your men, if any are in pursuit, and
endeavour to defeat the enemy forthwith.
   Your's Respectfully,
George Washington."
   "There, thank God," cried Dunwoodie, "my
hands are washed of Henry's re-capture; I can
now move to my duty with honour."
   "And with prudence too, dear Peyton," said
Frances, with a face as pale as death; " remem-
ber, Dunwoodie, you leave behind you new
claims upon your caution and care."
   The youth dwelt on her lovely but pallid fea-
tures with rapture, and as he pressed her hand to
his heart, exclaimed -- 
   "But why this haste? I can reach Peekskill
before the troops have breakfasted, if I start some
hours hence. I am too old a soldier to be hasten-
ed or disconcerted."
   "Nay! go at once," said Frances, in a hurried
voice, with a face whose bright tints would have
shamed a ruddy morn -- "neglect not the orders

-
of Washington. -- And oh! be prudent -- be care-
ful."
   "For your sake I will, lovely innocent," cried
her husband, folding her to his heart for the last
time. Frances sobbed a moment on his bosom,
and he tore himself from her presence.
   Miss Peyton retired with her niece, to whom
she conceived it necessary, before they separated
for the night, to give an abundance of good advice
on the subject of matrimonial duty. Her lecture
was modestly received if not properly digested.
We regret that history has not handed down to us
this precious dissertation; but the result of all our
investigation has been to learn that it partook
largely of those peculiarities, which are said to
tincture the rules prescribed to govern bachelor's
children. We will leave them, and return to Cap-
tain Wharton and Harvey Birch.

-
Chapter 16
CHAPTER XVI.
