
"Allow him not a parting word; 
Short be the shrift, and sure the cord!" 
Rokeby. 
    
   The pedlar and his companion soon reached the
valley, and after pausing to listen, and hearing no
sounds which announced that pursuers were
abroad, they entered the highway. Acquainted
with every step that led through the mountains,
and possessed of sinews inured to toil, Birch led
the way in silent activity, with the lengthened
strides that were peculiar to the man and his pro-
fession -- his pack was alone wanting to finish the
appearance of his ordinary business air. At times
when they approached one of those little posts,
held by the American troops, with which the high-
lands abounded, he would take a circuit to avoid
the sentinels, and plunge at once fearlessly into a
thicket, or ascend a rugged hill, that to the eye
seemed impassable. But the pedlar was familiar
with every turn in their difficult route, knew where
the ravines might be penetrated, or where the
streams were fordable. In one or two instances,
Henry thought that their further progress was abso-
lutely at an end, but the ingenuity or knowledge
of his guide conquered every difficulty. After
walking at an incredible rate for three hours, they
suddenly diverged from the road which inclined
to the east, and held their course directly across

-
the hills in a due south direction. This movement
was made, the pedlar informed his companion, in
order to avoid the parties who constantly patroled
in the southern entrance of the highlands, as well
as to shorten the distance, by travelling in a
straight line. After reaching the summit of a very
considerable hill, Harvey seated himself by the
side of a little run, and opening the wallet, that
he had slung where his pack was commonly sus-
pended, invited his comrade to partake of the
coarse fare that it contained. Henry had kept pace
with the pedlar, more by the excitement natural
to his situation, than by the equality of his physi-
cal powers. The idea of any halt was unpleasant,
so long as there existed a possibility of the horse
getting below him in time to intercept their re-
treat through the neutral ground. -- He, therefore,
stated his apprehensions to his companion, and ur-
ged his wish to proceed.
   "Follow my example, Captain Wharton," said
the pedlar, commencing his frugal meal; "if the
horse have started, it will be more than man can
do to head them; and if they have not, other work
is cut out for them, that will drive all thoughts of
you and me from their brains."
   "You said yourself, that two hours detention
was all important to us, and if we loiter here, of
what use will be the advantage that we may have
already obtained?"
   "Them two hours are passed, and Major Dun-
woodie thinks little of following two men, when
hundreds are waiting for him on the banks of the
river."
   "Listen!" interrupted Henry; "there are horse
at this moment passing at the foot of the hill. I
hear them even laughing and talking to each other.
By heavens! there is the voice of Dunwoodie him-
self, and he calls to his comrade in a manner that

-
shows but little uneasiness. One would think that
the situation of his friend would lower his spirits:
surely, Frances could not have given him the
letter."
   On hearing the first exclamation of the Captain,
Birch arose from his seat, and approached cau-
tiously to the brow of the hill, taking care to keep
his body in the shade of the rocks, so as to be un-
seen at any distance, and earnestly reconnoitred the
passing group of horsemen. He continued listen-
ing, until their quick footsteps were no longer au-
dible, and then quietly returned to his seat, and
with incomparable coolness resumed his meal.
   "You have a long walk, and a tiresome one be-
fore you, Captain Wharton; you had better do as
I do -- you was eager for food at the hut above
Fishkill, but travelling seems to have worn down
your appetite."
   "I thought myself safe then, but the informa-
tion of my sister fills me with uneasiness, and I
cannot eat."
   "You have less reason to be troubled now,
than at any time since the night before you was
taken, when you refused my advice and offer to
see you in safety," returned the pedlar. "Major
Dunwoodie is not a man to laugh and be gay, when
his friend is in difficulty. Come, then, and eat, for
no horse will be in our way, if we can hold our
legs for four hours longer, and the sun keeps be-
hind the hills as long as common."
   There was a composure in the pedlar's manner
that inspirited the youth, and having once deter-
mined to submit to Harvey's government, he suf-
fered himself to be persuaded into a tolerable sup-
per, if the quantity be considered without any re-
ference to the quality. After completing their re-
past, the pedlar again resumed his journey.
   Henry followed in blind submission to his will.

-
For two hours more they struggled with the diffi-
cult and dangerous passes of the highlands, with-
out road or any other guide than the moon, which
was travelling the heavens, now wading through
the flying clouds, and now shining upon objects
with a brilliancy, second only to her great source
of light. At length they arrived where the moun-
tains sunk into rough and unequal hillocks, and
passed at once from the barren sterility of the
precipices, to the imperfect culture of the neutral
ground.
   The pedlar now became more guarded in the
manner in which they proceeded, and took divers
precautions to prevent meeting any moving par-
ties of the Americans. With their stationary posts
he was too familiar to endanger his falling upon
them unawares. He wound among the hills and
vales, now keeping the highways and now avoid-
ing them, with a precision that seemed instinctive.
There was nothing elastic in his tread, but he gli-
ded over the ground with enormous strides, and a
body bent forward, without appearing to use ex-
ertion, or know weariness.
   The moon had set, and a faint streak of light
was beginning to show itself in the east. Captain
Wharton ventured to express a sense of fatigue,
and to inquire if they were not yet arrived at a part
of the country where it might be safe to apply at
some of the farm-houses for admission.
   "See here," said the pedlar, pointing to a hill
at a short distance in their rear; "do you not see
a man walking on the point of that rock? Turn
more, so as to bring the daylight in the range -- 
notice, now he moves, and seems to be looking
earnestly at something to the eastward. That is
a royal sentinel, and two hundred of the rig'lar
troops lay on that hill, no doubt sleeping on their
arms."

-
    
   "Then," cried Henry, "let us join them, and
our danger is at once ended."
   "Softly, softly -- Captain Wharton," said the
pedlar, drily; "you've once been in the midst of
three hundred of them, but there was a man who
could take you out; see you not yon dark body on the
side of the opposite hill, just above the corn-stalks?
These are the -- the rebels -- waiting only for day,
to see who will be the master of the ground."
   "Nay, then," exclaimed the fiery youth, "I
will join the troops of my prince, and share their
fortunes, be it good or be it bad."
   "You forget that you fight with a halter around
your neck -- no, no -- I have promised one whom I
must not disappoint, to carry you safe in; and un-
less you forget what I have already done, and
what I have risked for you, Captain Wharton, you
will turn and follow me to Harlaem."
   To this appeal, the youth felt unwillingly obli-
ged to submit; and they continued their course
towards the city. It was not long before they
gained the banks of the Hudson. After search-
ing for a short time under the shore, the pedlar
discovered a skiff, that, from his movements,
appeared to be an old acquaintance; and en-
tering it with his companion, he landed him on
the south side of the Croton. Here Birch declar-
ed they were in safety; for the royal troops held
the continentals at bay, and the former were out
in too great strength for the light parties of the
latter to trust themselves below that river, on
the immediate banks of the Hudson, from a dread
of having their retreat cut off.
