
   Throughout the whole of this arduous flight,
the pedlar had manifested a coolness and presence
of mind that nothing appeared to disturb. All
his faculties seemed to be of more than usual per-
fection, and the infirmities of nature to have no

-
dominion over him. Henry had followed him
like a child in leading-strings, and he now reaped
his reward, as he felt the bound of pleasure at
his heart, on hearing that he was relieved from ap-
prehension, and permitted to banish every doubt
of his security.
   A steep and laborious ascent brought them from
the level of the tide-waters to the high lands, that
form, in this part of the river, the eastern banks of
the Hudson. Retiring a little from the highway,
under the shelter of a thicket of cedars, the ped-
lar threw his form on a flat rock, and announced
to his companion, that the hour for rest and re-
freshment was at length arrived. The day was
now opened, and objects could be seen in the dis-
tance with distinctness. Beneath them lay the
Hudson, stretching to the south in a straight line
as far as the eye could reach. To the north, the
broken fragments of the highlands threw upwards
their lofty heads, above the masses of fog that
hung over the water, and by which the course of
the river could be traced into the bosom of the
hills, whose conical summits were grouping toge-
ther, one behind another, in that disorder which
might be supposed to succeed their mighty but
fruitless efforts to stop the progress of the flood.
Emerging from these confused piles, the river, as if
rejoicing at its release from the struggle, expanded
into a wide bay, which was ornamented by a few
fertile and low points that jutted humbly into
its broad basin. On the opposite, or western shore,
the rocks of Jersey were gathered in an array
that has obtained for them the name of the pali-
sadoes, elevating themselves for many hundred
feet, as if to protect the rich country in their rear
from the inroads of the conqueror; but, disdain-
ing such an enemy, the river swept proudly by
their feet, and held its undeviating way to the

-
ocean. A ray of the rising sun darted upon the
slight cloud that hung over the placid river, and
at once the whole scene was in motion, changing
and assuming new forms, and exhibiting fresh ob-
jects to the view in each successive moment. At
the daily rising of this great curtain of nature, at
the present time, scores of white sails and slug-
gish vessels are seen thickening on the water,
with that air of life which denotes the neighbour-
hood to the metropolis of a great and flourishing
empire; but to Henry and the pedlar it displayed
only the square yards and lofty masts of a vessel
of war, riding a few miles below them. Before the
fog had begun to move, the tall spars were seen
above it and from one of them a long pen-
dant was feebly borne abroad in the current of
night air, that still quivered along the river;
but as the smoke arose, the black hull, the crowd-
ed and complicated mass of rigging, and the heavy
yards and booms, spreading their arms afar, were
successively brought into view.
   "There, Captain Wharton," said the pedlar,
there is a safe resting-place for you -- America has
no arm that can reach you if once you gain the
deck of that ship. She is sent up to cover the
foragers, and support the troops; the rig'lar offi-
cers are over fond of the sound of cannon from
their shipping."
   Without condescending to reply to the sarcasm
conveyed in this speech, or perhaps not noticing
it, Henry joyfully acquiesced in the proposal, and
it was accordingly arranged between them, that so
soon as they were refreshed he should endeavour
to get on board of the vessel.
   While busily occupied in the very indispensable
operation of breaking their fast, our adventurers
were startled with the sound of distant fire arms.
At first a few scattering shots were fired, which

-
were succeeded by a long and animated roll of mus-
ketry, and then quick and heavy volleys followed
each other.
   "Your prophecy is made good," cried the Eng-
lish officer, springing upon his feet. "Our troops
and the rebels are at it -- I would give six months'
pay to see the charge."
   "Umph!" returned his companion, without
ceasing his meal; "they do very well to look at
from a distance; but I can't say but the company
of this bacon, cold as it is, is more to my taste just
now than a hot fire from the continentals."
   "The discharges are heavy for so small a force;
but the fire seems irregular."
   "The scattering guns are from the Connecticut
militia," said Harvey, raising his head to listen;
"they rattle it off finely, and are no fools at a
mark. The volleys are the rig'lars, who, you
know, fire by word -- as long as they can."
   "I like not the warmth of what you call a scat-
tering fire," exclaimed the captain, moving about
from uneasiness; "it is more like the roll of a drum
than the pop-gun shooting of skirmishers."
   "No -- no -- I said not skrimmagers," returned
the other, raising himself upon his knees, and
ceasing to eat; "so long as they'll stand, they are
too good for the best troops in the royal army. -- 
Each man does his work as if fighting by the job;
and then they think, while they fight; and don't
send bullets among the clouds, that were meant to
kill men upon earth."
   "You talk and look, sir, as if you wished them
success," cried Henry sternly.
   "I wish success to the good cause only, Captain
Wharton," returned the pedlar, suddenly chang-
ing his air of exultation to an abstracted manner.
"I thought you knew me too well, to be uncer-
tain which party I favoured."

-
    
   "Oh! you are reputed loyal, Mr. Birch," said
the youth, with a little contempt; -- "but, by Hea-
vens! the volleys have ceased!"
   They now both listened intently, for a little
while, during which the irregular reports became
less brisk, and suddenly heavy and repeated vol-
leys followed. -- 
   "They've been at the baggonet," said the ped-
lar; "the rig'lars have tried the baggonet, and
have drove the rebels."
   "Ay! Mr. Birch, the bayonet is the thing for
the British soldier, after all!" shouted Henry
with exultation. "They delight in the bayonet!"
   "Well, to my notion," said the pedlar, "there's
but little delight to be taken in any such pokerish
thing. But I dare say the militia are of my mind,
for half of them don't carry the ugly things. -- 
Lord! -- lord! -- Captain, I wish you'd go with me
once into the rebel camp, and hear what lies the
men tell about Bunker Hill and Burg'yne; you'd
think they loved the baggonet as much as they
do their dinner."
   There was an inward chuckle, and singular air
of affected innocency about his companion while
speaking, that rather annoyed Henry, and he
deigned no reply to his remarks.
   The firing now became desultory, occasionally
intermingled with heavy volleys. Both of the
fugitives were standing, listening with much anx-
iety, when a man, armed with a musket, was
seen stealing towards them under the shelter of
the cedar bushes that partially covered the hill.
Henry first noticed this suspiciously looking stran-
ger, and instantly pointed him out to his compa-
nion. Birch started, and certainly made an indi-
cation of sudden flight; but recollecting himself,
he stood in sullen silence until the stranger was
within a few yards of them -- 

-
    
