
   "'Tis friends," said the fellow, clubbing his gun,
but yet apparently afraid to venture nearer.
   "You had better be off," cried Birch, in a loud
voice, "here's rig'lars enough at hand to take
care of you; we are not near Dunwoodie's horse
now, and you will not easily get me again."
   "Damn Major Dunwoodie and his horse," cried
the leader of the skinners, (for it was him) "God
bless king George! and a speedy end to the rebel-
lion, say I. If you would just show me the safe
way in to the refugees, Mr. Birch, I'll pay you
well, and ever after stand your friend in the bar-
gain."
   "The road is as open to you as to me,"said Birch,
turning from him in ill-concealed disgust; "if you
want to find the refugees, you know well where
they lay."
   "Ay, but I'm a little afeard of going in upon
them by myself; now you are well known to them
all, and it will be no detriment to you just to let
me go in with you."
   Henry interfered, and after holding a short dia-
logue with the fellow, entered into a compact with
him, that on condition of surrendering his arms,
he might join their party. The man complied
instantly, and Birch received his gun with eager-
ness, nor did he lay it upon his shoulder to renew
their march, before he had carefully examined
the priming, and ascertained to his satisfaction,
that it contained a good dry ball-cartridge.
   As soon as this engagement was completed, they
commenced their journey anew. By following
the bank of the river, Birch led the way free from
observation, until they reached the point oppo-
site to the frigate, when, by making a signal, a boat
was induced to approach. Some time was spent,
and much precaution used, before the seamen
would trust themselves ashore; but Henry having

-
finally succeeded in making the officer, who com-
manded the party, credit his assertions, he was
able to rejoin his companions in arms in safety.
Before taking leave of Birch, the Captain handed
him his purse, which was tolerably well supplied
for the times; the pedlar received it, and watch-
ing an opportunity, he conveyed it unnoticed by
the skinner, to a part of his dress that was ingeni-
ously contrived to hold such treasures.
   The boat pulled from the shore, and Birch turn-
ed on his heel, drawing a sigh of vast relief, and
shot up the hill with the enormous strides for
which he was famous. The skinner followed, and
each party pursued their common course, casting
frequent and suspicious glances at the other, but
both maintaining a most impenetrable silence.
   Wagons were moving along the river road, and
occasional parties of horse were seen escorting
the fruits of their excursion towards the city. -- 
As the pedlar had views of his own, he rather
avoided falling in with any of these patroles, than
sought their protection. But, after travelling for
a few miles on the immediate banks of the river,
during which, notwithstanding the repeated efforts
of the skinner to establish something like sociabi-
lity, he maintained a most determined silence,
keeping a firm hold of the gun, and a side glance
upon his associate, the pedlar suddenly struck into
the highway, with an intention of crossing the hills
towards Harlaem. At the moment that he gained
the path, a body of horse came over a little emi-
nence, and was upon him before he perceived them.
It was too late to retreat, and after taking a view
of the materials that composed this scouting party,
Birch rejoiced in the rencontre as a probable
means of relieving him from his unwelcome com-
panion. They were some eighteen or twenty
men, who were mounted and equipped as dragoons,

-
though neither their appearance nor manner de-
noted much of discipline. At their head rode a hea-
vy middle aged man, whose features expressed as
much of animal passion and as little of reason as
could well be imagined. He wore the dress of an
officer, but there was none of that neatness in his
attire, nor grace in his movements, that was usually
found about the gentlemen who bore the royal
commission. His limbs were firm, but not pliable,
and he sat his horse with strength and confidence,
but his bridle hand would have been ridiculed by
the meanest rider in the Virginia regiment. As he
expected, this leader instantly hailed the pedlar, in
a voice by no means more conciliating than his ap-
pearance.
   "Hoy! my gentlemén -- which way so fast?"
he cried. "Has Washington sent you down as
spies?"
   "I am an innocent pedlar," returned Harvey,
meekly, "and am going below to lay in a fresh
stock."
   "And how do you expect to get below, my in-
nocent pedlar? Do you think we hold the forts at
Kingsbridge to cover such peddling rascals as you,
in your goings in and comings out?"
   "I believe I hold a pass that will carry me
through," said the pedlar, handing him a paper,
with an air of consummate indifference.
   The officer, for such he was, read it, and gave a
look of extraordinary intelligence for the man, at
Harvey, when he had done.
   Then turning fiercely to one or two of his men
who had officiously passed on and stopped the
way, he cried -- 
   "Why do you stop the man -- give way and let
him pass in peace; but who have we here? your
name is not on the paper."

-
    
   "No, sir," said the skinner, lifting his hat with
humility; "I have been a poor deluded man who
has been serving in the rebel army, but thank God,
I've lived to see the error of my ways, and am
now come to make reparation by enlisting under
the Lord's anointed."
   "Umph! a deserter -- a skinner, I'll swear,
wanting to turn cow-boy. In the last brush I had
with the scoundrels, I could hardly tell my own
men from the enemy. We are not over well sup-
plied with coats, and as for the faces, the rascals
change sides so often, that you may as well count
their faces for nothing; but trudge on, we will con-
trive to expend you before long."
   Ungracious as was this reception, if one could
judge of the skinner's feelings from his manner,
it nevertheless delighted him hugely. He moved
with alacrity towards the city, and really was so
happy to escape the brutal looks and frightful man-
ner of his interrogator, as to lose sight of all other
considerations. But the man who performed the
functions of orderly in the irregular troop, rode up
to the side of his commander, and entered into a
close and apparently confidential discourse with
his principal. They spoke in whispers, and cast
frequent and searching glances at the skinner, until
the fellow began to think himself an object of more
than common attention. His satisfaction at this
distinction was somewhat heightened, at observing
a smile on the face of the Captain, which, although
it might be thought grim, certainly denoted much
inward delight. This pantomime occupied the
time they were passing a hollow, and concluded
as they rose another hill. Here the captain and
his sergeant both dismounted, and ordered the
party to halt. The warriors each took a pistol
from their holsters, a movement that excited no sus-
picion or alarm, as it was a precaution always ob-

-
served, and beckoned to the pedlar and the skin-
ner to follow. A short walk brought them to
where the hill overhung the river, the ground
falling nearly perpendicularly to the shore. On
the brow of the eminence stood a deserted and di-
lapidated building, that had been a barn. Many
of the boards that had formed its covering were
torn from their places, and its wide doors were
lying the one in front of the building and the other
half way down the precipice, whither the wind had
cast it. Entering this desolate spot, the refugee
officer very coolly took from his pocket a short
pipe, whose colour might once have been white,
but which now, from long use, had acquired not
only the hue but the gloss of ebony, a tobacco
box, and a small roll of leather that contained
steel, flint and tinder. With this apparatus, he
soon furnished his mouth with a companion that
habit had long rendered necessary to extraordina-
ry reflection in its owner. So soon as a large co-
lumn of smoke arose from this arrangement, the
Captain significantly held forth his hand towards
his assistant. A small cord was produced from
the pocket of the sergeant, and handed to the
other. Now, indeed, appeared a moment of deep
care in the refugee, who threw out vast puffs of
smoke until nearly all of his head was obscured, and
looked around the building with an anxious and in-
quisitive eye. At length he removed the pipe,
and inhaled a draught of pure air, returned it to
its domicile, and proceeded to business at once.
There was a heavy piece of timber laid across the
girths of the barn, but a little way from the south-
ern door, which opened directly upon a full view
of the river as it stretched far away towards the
bay of New-York. Over this timber, the refugee
threw one end of the rope, and regaining it, joined
the two parts in his hand. A small and weak bar-

-
rel that wanted a head, the staves of which
were loose and at one end standing apart, was left
on the floor probably as useless to the owner. -- 
This was brought by the sergeant in obedience to
a look from his officer, and placed beneath the
beam. All of these arrangements were made with
immoveable composure, and now seemed com-
pleted to the officer's perfect satisfaction.
