
   "Come," he said coolly to the skinner, who,
amazed with the preparations, had stood both
a close and silent spectator of their progress. He
obeyed -- and it was not until he found his neck-
cloth removed, and hat thrown aside, that he took
the alarm. But he had so often resorted to a si-
milar expedient to extract information or plunder,
that he by no means felt the terror an unpractised
man would have suffered, at these ominous move-
ments. The rope was adjusted to his neck with
the same coolness that formed the characteristic
of the whole movement, and a fragment of board
being laid upon the barrel, he was ordered to
mount it.
   "But it may fall," said the skinner, for the first
time beginning to tremble. "I will tell you any
thing, -- even how to surprise our party at the
Pond, without this trouble; and that is commanded
by my own brother."
   "I want no information," returned his execu-
tioner, (for such he now seemed really to be,) as
he threw the rope repeatedly over the beam, first
drawing it tight, so as to annoy the skinner a lit-
tle, and then casting the end from him, far beyond
the reach of any one.
   "This is joking too far," cried the skinner, in
a tone of remonstrance, and raising himself on his
toes, with the vain hope of releasing himself from
the cord by slipping his head through the noose -- 

-
But the caution and experience of the refugee
had guarded against this escape.
   "What did you with the horse you stole from
me, rascal?" he cried, throwing out extraordinary
columns of smoke, as he waited for a reply.
   "He broke down in the chase," replied the
skinner quickly; "but I can tell you where one is
to be found, that is worth him and his sire."
   "Liar! I will help myself when I want one -- 
but you had better call upon God for aid, as your
hour is short." On concluding this consoling ad-
vice, he struck the barrel a violent blow with his
heavy foot, and the slender staves flew in every
direction, leaving the skinner whirling in the air.
As his hands were unconfined, he threw them up-
wards, and held himself suspended by main
strength.
   "Come, captain," he said coaxingly, a little
huskiness creeping into his voice, and his knees
beginning to shake with a slight tremor, "just
end the joke -- 'tis enough to make a laugh, and
my arms begin to tire -- indeed I can't hold on
much longer."
   "Harkee, Mr. Pedlar," said the refugee, in a
voice that would not be denied, "I want not your
company. Through that door lies your road -- 
march! -- offer to touch that dog, and you'll swing
in his place, if twenty Sir Henrys wanted your
services." So saying, he retired to the road with
the sergeant, as the pedlar precipitately retreated
down the bank.
   Birch went no farther than a bush that oppor-
tunely offered itself as a skreen to conceal his
person, while he yielded to an unconquerable de-
sire, to witness what would be the termination of
this extraordinary scene.
   Left thus alone, the skinner began to throw
fearful glances around, to espy the hiding places

-
of his tormentors. For the first time, the horrid
idea seemed to shoot through his brain, that
something serious was intended by the Cow-Boy.
He called entreatingly to be released, and made
rapid and incoherent promises of important infor-
mation, mingled with affected pleasantry at their
conceit, which he could hardly admit to himself
could mean any thing so dreadful as it seemed. -- 
But as he heard the tread of the horses moving on
their course, and in vain looked around for human
aid, violent tremblings seized his limbs, and his
eyes began to start from his head with terror. -- 
He made a desperate effort to reach the beam,
but too much exhausted with his previous exer-
tions he caught the rope in his teeth, in a vain
effort to sever the cord, and fell to the whole
length of his arms. -- Here his cries were turned
into shrieks -- 
   "Help -- cut the rope -- Captain! -- Birch! -- good
pedlar -- down with the Congress! -- sergeant! -- for
God's sake help -- Hurrah for the King! -- Oh God!
Oh God! -- mercy -- mercy -- mercy -- "
   As his voice became suppressed, one of his
hands endeavoured to make its way between the
rope and his neck, and partially succeeded, but
the other fell quivering by his side. A convulsive
shuddering passed over his whole frame, and he
hung a hideous livid corse.
   Birch continued gazing on this scene with a
kind of infatuation, and at its close he placed his
hands to his ears, rushing towards the highway;
but still the cries for mercy rung through his brain,
and it was many weeks before his memory ceased
to dwell on the horrid event. The Cow-boys
rode steadily on their route, as if nothing had oc-
curred, and the body was left swinging in the
wind, until chance directed the footsteps of some
straggler to the place.

-
Chapter 17
CHAPTER XVII.
"Green be the turf above thee, 
Friend of my better days -- 
None knew thee but to love thee, 
Nor nam'd thee but to praise." 
Halleck. 
    
   While the scenes and events that we have re-
corded, were occurring, Captain Lawton led his
small party, by slow and wary marches, from the
four-corners to the front of a body of the enemy,
where he so successfully manoeuvred for a short
time as completely to elude all their efforts to en-
trap him, and yet so to disguise his own force, as to
excite the constant apprehension of an attack from
the Americans. This forbearing policy on the
side of the partisan, was owing to orders that he
had received from his commander. When Dun-
woodie left his detachment, the enemy were known
to be slowly advancing, and he directed Lawton
to hover around them until his own return, and the
arrival of a body of foot, which might aid in inter-
cepting their retreat.
   The trooper discharged his duty to the letter,
but with no little of the impatience that made part
of his character, when restrained from the attack.
During these movements, Betty Flanagan guided
her little cart with indefatigable zeal among the
rocks of West-Chester, now discussing with the
sergeant the nature of evil spirits and the quality
of her own, and now combatting with the surgeon

-
sundry points of practice that were hourly arising
under their opposite opinions upon the subject of
stimulus. But the moment at length arrived that
was to terminate their controversies, and decide
the mastery of the field. A detachment of the
eastern militia moved out from their fastnesses,
and approached the enemy.
   The junction between Lawton and his auxilia-
ries, was made at midnight, and an immediate con-
sultation was held between him and the leader of
the foot soldiers. After listening to the statements
of the partisan, who rather despised the prowess
of his enemy, the commandant of the party deter-
mined to attack the British, the moment that day-
light enabled him to reconnoitre their position,
without waiting for the aid of Dunwoodie and his
horse. So soon as this decision was made, Law-
ton retired from the building where the consulta-
tion was held, and rejoined his own small com-
mand.
   The few troopers who were with the Captain,
had fastened their horses in a spot adjacent to a
hay-stack, and laid their own frames under its
shelter to catch a few hours sleep. But Dr. Sit-
greaves, Sergeant Hollister, and Betty Flanagan,
were congregated at a short distance by them-
selves, having spread a few blankets upon the dry
surface of a rock. Lawton threw his huge frame
by the side of the surgeon, and folding his cloak
around him, leaned his head upon one hand, and
appeared deeply engaged in contemplating the
moon as it waded majestically through the heavens.
The sergeant was sitting upright in respectful de-
ference to the conversation that the operator was
kindly dispensing, and the washerwoman was now
raising her head in order to vindicate some of her
favourite maxims, and now composing it on one of
her gin casks, in a vain effort to sleep.

