
-
    
   "So, sergeant," continued the operator, after
pausing a moment while Lawton took the position
which we have described, "if you cut upwards,
the blow, by losing the additional momentum of
your weight, will be less destructive, and at the
same time effect the true purposes of war, that
of disabling your enemy."
   "Pooh! pooh! sargeant, dear," said the wash-
erwoman, raising her head from her blanket;
"where's the harm of taking a life jist in the way
of battle? Is it the rig'lars who'll show favour,
and they fighting? Ask Captain Jack, there, if
the country could get the liberty, and the boys
no strike their might -- Pooh! I wouldn't have
them disparage the whiskey so much."
   "It is not to be expected, that an ignorant fe-
male like yourself, Mrs. Flannagan," returned
the operator, with ineffable disdain, "can com-
prehend the distinctions of surgical science; nei-
ther are you accomplished in the sword exercise;
so that dissertations upon the judicious use of that
weapon could avail you nothing, either in theory
or practice."
   "It's but little I care, any way, for sich bother-
ments," said Betty, sinking her head under her
blanket again; "but fighting is no play, and a
body should'nt be partic'lar how they strike, or
who they hit, so it's the inimy."
   "Are we likely to have a warm day, Captain
Lawton?" said the surgeon, turning from the
washerwoman with vast contempt.
   "'Tis more than probable," replied the trooper
in a voice that startled his companion; "these
militia seldom fail of making a bloody field, either
by their cowardice or their ignorance. And the
real soldier is made to suffer for their bad con-
duct."
   "Are you ill, John?" said the surgeon, passing

-
his hand along the arm of the captain, until it in-
stinctively settled on his pulse; but the steady,
even beat announced neither bodily nor mental
malady.
   "Sick at heart, Archibald, at the folly of our
rulers, in believing that battles are to be fought,
and victories won, by fellows, who handle a mus-
ket as they would a flail -- lads who wink when
they pull a trigger, and form a line like a hoop
pole. It is the dependance we place on these
men that spills the best blood of the country."
   The surgeon listened to his philippic with
amazement. It was not the matter but the man-
ner that surprised him. The trooper had uniform-
ly exhibited on the eve of battle, an animation
and eagerness to engage, that was directly at va-
riance with the admirable coolness of his manner
at other times. But now there was a despondency
in the tones of his voice, and a listlessness in his
air, that was entirely different. The operator hesi-
tated a moment to reflect in what manner he
could render this change of service, in furthering
his favorite system, and then continued -- 
   "It would be wise, John, to advise the Colonel
to keep at long shot -- a spent ball will disable -- "
   "No!" exclaimed the trooper impatiently; "let
the rascals singe their whiskers at the muzzles of
the British muskets -- if they can be driven there;
but enough of them. Archibald, do you deem
that moon to be a world like this, and containing
creatures like ourselves?"
   "Nothing more probable, dear John -- we know
its size, and reasoning from analogy, may easily
conjecture its use. Whether or not its inhabitants
have attained that perfection in the sciences which
we have acquired, must depend greatly on the
state of its society, and in some measure, upon its
physical influences." -- 

-
    
   "I care nothing about their learning, Archibald;
but, 'tis a wonderful power that can create such
worlds, and controul them in their wanderings. I
know not why, but there is a feeling of melancho-
ly excited within me, as I gaze on that body of
light, shaded as it is by your fancied sea and land.
It seems to be the resting-place of departed spi-
rits!"
   "Take a drop, darling," said Betty, raising her
head once more, and proffering her own bottle;
"'tis the night damps that chills the blood -- and
then the talk with the cursed militia is no good for
a fiery temper; take a drop darling, and yee'll
sleep 'till the morning. I fed Roanoke myself,
for I thought yee might need hard riding the mor-
row."
   "'Tis a glorious heaven to look upon," conti-
nued the trooper, in the same tone, and utterly
disregarding the offer of Betty; "and 'tis a thou-
sand pities, that such worms as men, should let
their vile passions deface such goodly work."
   "You speak the truth, dear John; there is room
for all to live and enjoy themselves in peace, if
each could be satisfied with his own. Still war has
its advantages -- it particularly promotes the know-
ledge of surgery -- and"
   "There is a star," continued Lawton, still bent
on his own ideas, "struggling to glitter through a
few driving clouds; perhaps that too is a world,
and contains creatures endowed with reason like
ourselves; think you, that they know of war and
bloodshed?"
   "If I might be so bold," said sergeant Hollis-
ter, mechanically raising his hand to his cap," 'tis
mentioned in the good book, that the Lord made
the sun to stand still, while Joshua was charging
the enemy, in order do you see, sir, as I suppose,
that they might have day-light to turn their flank,

-
or perhaps make a feint in the rear, or some such
matter. Now, if the Lord would lend them a hand,
fighting cannot be sinful. I have often been non-
plushed though, to find that they used them cha-
riots instead of heavy dragoons, who are in all com-
parison, better to break a line of infantry, and
who, for the matter of that, could turn such wheel
carriages, and getting in the rear, play the very
devil with them, horses, and all."
   "It is because you do not understand the con-
struction of those vehicles for war, sergeant Hol-
lister, that you judge of them so erroneously,"
said the surgeon. "They were armed with sharp
weapons that protruded from their wheels, and
which broke the columns of foot like the dismem-
bered particles of matter. I doubt not, if similar
instruments were affixed to the cart of Mrs. Flan-
agan, that great confusion might be carried into
the ranks of the enemy thereby, this very day."
   "It's but little that the mare would go, and the
rig'lars firing at her," grumbled Betty from under
her blanket; "when we got the plunder, the time
we drove them through the Jarseys, it was I had
to back the baste up to the dead, for divil the foot
would she move, forenent the firing, wid her eyes
open. Roanoke and Captain Jack are good enough
for the red coats, letting alone myself and the
mare."
   A long roll of the drums, from the hill occupied
by the British, announced that they were on the
alert, and a corresponding signal was immediately
heard from the Americans. The bugle of the
Virginians struck up its martial tones, and in a few
moments, both the hills, the one held by the royal
troops, and the other by their enemies, were alive
with armed men. Day had begun to dawn, and
preparations were making by either party, to give
and to receive the attack. In numbers the Ame-

-
ricans had greatly the advantage, but in discipline
and equipments, the superiority was entirely with
their enemies. The arrangements for the battle
were brief, and by the time that the sun had risen,
the militia moved forward to the attack.
   The ground did not admit of the movements of
the horse, and the only duty that could be assign-
ed to the dragoons, was to watch the moment of
victory, and endeavour to improve the success to
the utmost. Lawton soon got his warriors into
the saddle, and leaving them to the charge of Hol-
lister, he rode himself along the line of foot, who in
varied dresses and imperfectly armed, were formed
in a shape that in some degree resembled a martial
array. A scornful smile lowered around the lip
of the trooper, as he guided Roanoke with a skil-
ful hand through the windings of their ranks, and
as the word was given to march, he turned the
flank of the regiment, and followed close in the
rear. The Americans had to descend into a little
hollow, and rise a hill on its opposite side to ap-
proach the enemy. The descent was made with
tolerable steadiness, until near the foot of the hill,
when the royal troops advanced in a beautiful line,
with their flanks protected by the formation of the
ground. The appearance of the British drew a
fire from the militia, which was given with good
effect, and for a moment staggered the regulars.
But they were rallied by their officers, and threw
in volley after volley, with great steadiness. For
a short time the firing was warm and destructive,
until the English advanced with the bayonet. This
assault the militia had not sufficient discipline to
withstand. Their line wavered, then paused, and
finally broke into companies, and fragments of
companies, keeping up at the same time a scatter-
ing and desultory fire.
