

-
    
   Lawton witnessed these operations in silence,
nor opened his mouth to speak, until the field was
covered with parties of the flying Americans. -- 
Then, indeed, he seemed stung with the disgrace
that was thus heaped upon the arms of his country.
Spurring Roanoke along the side of the hill, he
called to the fugitives in all the strength of his
powerful voice. He pointed to the enemy, and
assured his countrymen that they had mistaken the
way. There was such a mixture of indifference
and irony in his exhortations, that a few paused
in surprise -- more joined them, until roused by
the example of the trooper, and stimulated by
their own spirits, they demanded to be led against
their foe once more.
   "Come on then, my brave friends!" shouted
the trooper, turning his horse's head towards the
British line, one flank of which was very near him;
"come on, and hold your fire until it will scorch
their eye-brows."
   The men sprang forward, and followed his ex-
ample, neither giving nor receiving a fire, until
they had reached to within a very short distance
of the enemy. An English sergeant, who had been
concealed by a rock, enraged with the audacity of
the officer who thus dared their arms, stept from
behind his cover, and advancing within a few yards
of the trooper levelled his musket -- 
   "Fire, and you die," cried Lawton, spurring
his charger, who sprung forward at the instant.
The action and the tone of his voice shook the
nerves of the Englishman, who drew his trigger
with an uncertain aim. Roanoke sprang with all
his feet from the earth, and, plunging, fell headlong
and lifeless at the feet of his destroyer. Lawton
kept his feet, and stood face to face with his ene-
my, who presented his bayonet, and made a despe-
rate thrust at the trooper's heart. The steel of

-
their weapons emitted sparks of fire, and the bay-
onet flew fifty feet in the air. At the next mo-
ment its owner lay a quivering corpse.
   "Come on," shouted the trooper, as a body of
English appeared on the rock and threw in a steady
fire; "come on," he repeated, and brandished
his sabre fiercely. His gigantic form fell back-
ward like a majestic pine that was yielding to the
axe, but still, as he slowly fell, he continued to wield
his sabre, and once more the deep tones of his
voice uttered, "come on."
   The advancing Americans paused aghast, as they
witnessed the fate of their new leader, and then
turning, they left to the royal troops the victory.
   It was neither the intention nor the policy of
the English commander to pursue his success, as
he well knew that strong parties of the Americans
would soon arrive; accordingly, he only tarried to
collect his wounded, and forming into a square, he
commenced his retreat towards their shipping. -- 
Within twenty minutes of the fall of Lawton, the
ground was deserted by both English and Ameri-
cans.
   When the inhabitants of the country were cal-
led upon to enter the field, they were necessarily
attended by such surgical advisers, as were furnish-
ed by the low state of the profession in the inte-
rior, at that day. Dr. Sitgreaves entertained quite
as profound a contempt for the medical attendants
of the militia, as the Captain did of the troops
themselves. He wandered therefore, around the
field, casting many an expressive glance of disap-
probation at the slight operations that came under
his eye; but, when among the flying troops, he
found that his comrade and friend was no where
to be seen, he hastened back to the spot at which
Hollister was posted, to inquire if the trooper was
returned. Of course, the answer he received was

-
in the negative. Filled with a thousand uneasy
conjectures, the surgeon, without regarding, or in-
deed without at all reflecting, upon any dangers
that might lie in his way, strode over the ground
at an enormous rate, to the point where he knew
had been the final struggle. Once before, the sur-
geon had rescued his friend from death, in a simi-
lar situation, as he supposed, and he felt a secret
joy in his own conscious skill, as he perceived
Betty Flanagan seated on the ground, holding in
her lap the head of a man, whose size and dress
he knew belonged only to the trooper. As he ap-
proached the spot, the surgeon became alarmed
at the aspect of the washerwoman. Her little
black bonnet was thrown aside, and her hair,
which was already streaked with gray, hung around
her face in disorder.
   "John! dear John," said the Doctor tenderly,
as he bent and laid his hand upon the senseless
wrist of the trooper, from which it recoiled with
an intuitive knowledge of his fate, "John! dear
John, where are you hurt? -- can I help you?"
   "Yee talk to the senseless clay," said Betty,
rocking her body, and unconsciously playing with
the raven ringlets of the trooper's hair; "it's no
more will he hear, and it's but little will he mind
yee'r probes and yee'r med'cines. Och! hone -- 
och! hone -- and where will be the liberty now? or
who will there be to fight the battles, or gain the
day?"
   "John!" repeated the surgeon, still unwilling
to believe the evidence of his unerring senses;
"dear John, speak to me -- say what you will, that
you do but speak. Oh! God!" exclaimed the
surgeon, giving way to his emotions, "he is dead;
would that I had died with him!"
   "There is but little use in living and fighting
now," said Betty; "both him and the baste! -- 

-
see, there is the poor animal, and here is his mas-
ter. I fed the horse with my own hands the day;
and the last male that he ate, was of my own
cooking. Och! hone -- och! hone -- that Captain
Jack should live to be killed by the rig'lars!"
   "John! -- my dear John!" said the surgeon,
with convulsive sobs, "thy hour has come, and
many a more prudent man survives thee -- but
none better, nor braver. Oh! John, thou wert
to me a kind friend, and very dear; it is unphilo-
sophical to grieve -- but for thee, John, I must
weep, even in bitterness of heart!"
   The Doctor buried his face in his hands, and
for several minutes sat yielding to an ungovernable
burst of sorrow; while the washerwoman gave vent
to her grief in words -- moving her body in a kind
of writhing, and playing with different parts of her
favorite's dress with her fingers.
   "And who'll there be to incourage the boys
now?" she said; "oh! Captain Jack! -- Captain
Jack! yee was the sowl of the troop, and it
was but little we know'd of the danger, and yee
fighting. Och! he was no maly mouth'd, that
quarrelled wid a widowed woman for the matter
of a burn in the mate, or the want of a breakfast.
Taste a drop, darling, and it may be, 'twill revive
yee. Och! and he'll nivir taste agin -- here's
the Doctor, honey, him yee used to blarney wid,
wapeing as if the poor sowl would die for yee.
Och! he's gone -- he's gone, and the liberty is
gone wid him."
   A heavy and thundering sound of horses' feet
came rolling along the road which led near the
place where Lawton lay, and directly the whole
body of Virginians appeared, with Dunwoodie at
their head. The news of his Captain's fate had
reached him; for the instant that he noticed the
body, he halted the squadron, and dismounting,

-
approached the spot. The countenance of Law-
ton was not in the least distorted, but the angry
frown which had lowered over his brow, during
the battle, was fixed even in death. His frame
was composed, and stretched as if in sleep. Dun-
woodie took hold of his hand, and gazed a mo-
ment in silence; -- his own dark eye began to flash,
and the paleness which had overspread his fea-
tures, was succeeded by a spot of deep red in ei-
ther cheek.
   "With his own sword will I avenge him!" he
cried, endeavouring to take the weapon from the
hand of Lawton -- but the grasp resisted his utmost
strength. "It shall be buried with him: -- Sit-
greaves, take care of our friend, while I revenge
his death."
   The Major hastened back to his charger, and
led the way in pursuit of the enemy.
   While Dunwoodie had been thus engaged, the
body of Lawton lay in open view to the whole
squadron. He was an universal favourite, and the
sight inflamed the men to the utmost: neither of-
ficers nor soldiers possessed that coolness which
is necessary to ensure success to military opera-
tions, but they spurred ardently after their ene-
mies, burning with a single wish for vengeance.
