
   The English were formed in a hollow square,
which contained their wounded, who were far from
numerous, and were marching steadily across a
very uneven country, as the dragoons approached.
The horse charged in column, and were led by
Dunwoodie, who, burning with revenge, thought
to ride through their ranks, and scatter them at a
blow; but the enemy knew their own safety too
well, and standing firm, received the charge on
the points of their bayonets. The horse of the
Virginians recoiled, and the rear rank of the foot
throwing in a close fire, the Major, with a few of

-
his men fell. The English continued their retreat
the moment they were extricated from their as-
sailants; and Dunwoodie, who was severely, but
not dangerously wounded, recalled his men from
further attempts, which in that stony country must
necessarily be fruitless.
   A sad duty remained to be fulfilled: -- the dra-
goons retired slowly through the hills, conveying
their wounded commander, and the body of Law-
ton. The latter they interred under the ramparts
of one of the highland forts, and the former they
consigned to the tender care of his afflicted bride.
   Many weeks were gone, before the Major was
restored to sufficient strength to be removed; du-
ring those weeks, how often did he bless the mo-
ment that gave him a right to the services of his
beautiful nurse! She hung around his couch with
fond attention; administered with her own hands
every prescription of the indefatigable Sitgreaves;
and grew each hour in the affections and esteem
of her husband. An order from Washington soon
sent the troops into winter quarters, and permis-
sion was given to Dunwoodie to repair to his own
plantation, with the rank of Lieut. Col. in order
to complete the restoration of his health. Captain
Singleton made one of the party; and the whole
family retired from the active scenes of the war,
to the ease and plenty of the Major's own estate.
Before leaving Fishkill, however, letters were con-
veyed to them through an unknown hand, ac-
quainting them with Henry's safety and good
health; and also that Colonel Wellmere had left
the continent for his native island, lowered in the
estimation of every honest man in the royal army.
   It was a happy winter for Dunwoodie, and smiles
once more began to play around the lovely mouth
of Frances.

-
Chapter 18
CHAPTER XVIII.
     "Midst furs, and silks, and jewels sheen, 
He stood, in simple Lincoln green, 
The centre of the glittering ring; 
And Snowdown's knight is Scotland's King!" 
Lady of the Lake. 
    
   The commencement of the following year was
passed on the part of the Americans in making
great preparations, in conjunction with their al-
lies, to bring the war to a close. In the south,
Greene and Rawdon made a bloody campaign,
that was highly honorable to the troops of the lat-
ter, and which, by terminating entirely to the ad-
vantage of the former, proved him to be the bet-
ter General of the two.
   New York was the point that was threatened
by the allied armies, and Washington, by exciting
a constant apprehension for the safety of that city,
prevented such reinforcements from being sent
to Cornwallis, as would have enabled him to im-
prove his success.
   At length as autumn approached, every indica-
tion was given that the final moment had arrived.
   The French forces drew near to the Royal lines,
passing through the Neutral Ground, and threat-
ened an attack in the direction of Kings-bridge,
while large bodies of the Americans were acting
in concert, by hovering round the British posts,
and also drawing nigh in the Jerseys, seemed to

-
threaten the royal forces from that quarter also.
The preparations partook both of the nature of a
siege and a storm. But Sir Henry Clinton, in the
possession of intercepted letters from Washington,
rested securely within his lines, and cautiously
disregarded the solicitations of Cornwallis for suc-
cour.
   It was at the close of a fine day in the month of
September, that a large assemblage of officers
were collected near the door of a building, that
was situated in the heart of the American troops,
who held the Jerseys. The age, the dress, and
the dignity of deportment, of most of these warri-
ors, indicated them to be of high rank; but to
one in particular was paid a deference and obe-
dience, that announced him to be of the highest.
His dress was plain, but bore the usual military
distinctions of command. He was mounted on a
noble animal of a deep bay, and a groupe of young
men, in gayer attire, evidently awaited his plea-
sure, and did his bidding. Many a hat was lifted,
as its owner addressed this officer, and when he
spoke, a profound attention, exceeding the res-
pect of mere professional etiquette, was exhibited
on every countenance. At length the General
raised his own hat, and bowed gravely to all around
him. The salute was returned, and the party dis-
persed, leaving the officer without a single at-
tendant, except his body servants and one aid-de-
camp. Dismounting, he stepped back a few paces,
and for a moment, viewed the condition of his
horse with the eye of one who well understood the
animal, and then casting a brief but expressive
glance at his aid, he retired into the building, fol-
lowed by that gentleman.
   On entering an apartment that was apparently
fitted for his reception, he took a seat, and conti-
nued for a long time in a thoughtful attitude, as

-
one who was in the habit of communing much
with himself. During this silence, the aid-de-
camp sat in respectful expectation of his orders.
At length the General raised his eyes, and spoke in
the low placid tones that seemed natural to him.
   "Has the man whom I wished to see arrived,
sir?"
   "He waits the pleasure of your excellency."
   "I will receive him here, and alone, if you
please."
   The aid bowed and withdrew. In a few minutes
the door again opened, and a figure glided into the
apartment, and stood modestly at a distance from
the General, without speaking. His entrance
was unheard by the officer, who sat gazing in the
fire, deeply absorbed in his own meditations. -- 
Several minutes passed, when he spoke to himself
in an under tone -- 
   "To-morrow we must raise the curtain, and
expose our plans. May heaven prosper them."
   A slight movement made by the stranger at the
sound of his voice, caught his ear, and he turned
his head and saw that he was not alone. He
pointed silently to the fire, towards which the
figure advanced, although the multitude of his
garments, which seemed more calculated for dis-
guise than comfort, rendered its warmth unneces-
sary -- a second mild and courteous gesture mo-
tioned to a vacant chair, but the stranger refused
it with a modest acknowledgment -- another pause
followed, and continued for some time; at length
the officer arose and opening a desk that was laid
upon the table near which he sat, took from it a
small and apparently heavy bag. -- 
   "Harvey Birch," he said, turning to the stran-
ger, "the time has arrived when our connexion
must cease; henceforth and forever we must be
strangers."

-
