
   Here the dialogue was interrupted by a sum-
mons to the suttler to prepare her mornings re-
past, and they were obliged to separate, the wo-
man secretly hoping that the interest the sergeant
manifested for her was more earthly than he ima-
gined, and the man, bent on saving a soul from the
fangs of the dark spirit, that was prowling through
their camp, in quest of victims.
   During the breakfast, several expresses arrived,
one of which brought intelligence of the actual
force and destination of the enemy's expedition
that was out on the Hudson, and another, orders
to send Captain Wharton to the first post above,
under the escort of a body of dragoons. These
last instructions, or rather commands, for they ad-
mitted of no departure from their letter, completed
the sum of Dunwoodie's uneasiness. The despair
and misery of Frances, were constantly before his
eyes, and fifty times he was tempted to throw him-
self on his horse, and gallop to the Locusts, but an
uncontrollable feeling of delicacy prevented him.
In obedience to the commands of his superior, an
officer, with a small party, was sent to the cottage
to conduct Henry Wharton to the place directed,

-
and the gentleman who was entrusted with the
execution of the order, was charged with a letter
from Dunwoodie to his friend, containing the most
cheering assurances of his safety, as well as the
strongest pledges of his own unceasing exertions
in his favour. Lawton was left in charge of the
few wounded, with part of his own troop, and as soon
as the men were refreshed, the encampment broke
up, and the main body marched towards the Hud-
son. Dunwoodie repeated, again and again, his
injunctions to Captain Lawton -- dwelt upon every
word that had fallen from the pedlar, and canvass-
ed in every possible manner that his ingenuity
could devise, the probable meaning of his myste-
rious warnings, until no excuse remained for de-
laying his own departure a moment longer. Sud-
denly recollecting, however, that no directions had
been given for the disposal of Colonel Wellmere,
instead of following the rear of his column, the
major yielded to his passions, and turned down the
road which led to the Locusts, attended by hls
own man. The horse of Dunwoodie was fleet as
the wind, and scarcely a minute seem'd to have
passed before he gained a sight, from an eminence,
of the loney vale, and as he was plunging into the
bottom lands that formed its surface, he caught a
glimpse of Henry Wharton, and his escort, defiling
at a distance through a pass which led to the posts
above. This sight added to the speed of the anx-
ious youth, who now turned the angle of the hill
that opened to the valley, and came suddenly on
the object of his search. Frances had followed
the party which guarded her brother at a distance,
and as they vanished from her sight she felt as if
deserted by all that she most prized in this world.
The unaccountable absence of Dunwoodie, with
the shock of parting from Henry under such cir-
cumstances, had entirely subdued her fortitude,

-
and she had sunk on a stone by the road-side and
wept as if her heart would break. Dunwoodie
sprung from his charger, bidding his man to lead
him up the road, and in a moment was by the
side of the weeping girl.
   "Frances -- my own Frances!" he exclaimed,
"why this distress -- let not the situation of your
brother create any alarm. As soon as the duty
I am now on is completed, I will hasten to the
feet of Washington, and beg his release. The
Father of his Country will never deny such a boon
to one of his favourite pupils."
   "Major Dunwoodie, for your interest on be-
half of my poor brother, I thank you," said the
maid hastily, drying her eyes, and rising with dig-
nity. "But such language addressed to me, sure-
ly is improper."
   "How! improper!" echoed her lover in amaze-
ment, "are you not mine -- by the consent of
your father -- your aunt -- your brother -- nay, by
your own consent, my sweet Frances."
   "I wish not, Major Dunwoodie, to interfere
with the prior claims that any other lady may
have to your affections," said Frances, motioning
to return.
   "None other, I swear, by Heaven, none other
but yourself has any claim on me," cried Dun-
woodie with fervour; "you alone are mistress of
my inmost soul."
   "You have practised so much, and so success-
fully, Major Dunwoodie, that it is no wonder you
excel in deceiving the credulity of my sex," said
the maiden bitterly, attempting a smile which the
tremulousness of her muscles smothered in its
birth.
   "Am I a villain, Miss Wharton, that you re-
ceive me with such language -- when have I ever

-
deceived you, Frances -- who has practised in this
manner on your purity of heart?"
   "Why has not Major Dunwoodie honoured the
dwelling of his intended father with his presence
lately? Did he forget it contained one friend on a
bed of sickness, and another in deep distress? Has it
escaped his memory that it held his intended wife?
Or is he fearful of meeting more than one that
can lay a claim to that title? Oh, Peyton -- Pey-
ton, how have I been deceived in you -- with the
foolish credulity of my youth, I thought you all
that was brave, noble, generous, and loyal."
   "Frances, I see how it is that you have de-
ceived yourself," cried Dunwoodie, his face in a
glow of fire; "you do me injustice, I swear by
all that is most dear to me, that you do me in-
justice."
   "Swear not, Major Dunwoodie," interrupted
the maiden, her fine countenance lighting up with
all the lustre of womanly pride; "the time is gone
by for me to credit oaths."
   "Miss Wharton, would you have me a cox-
comb," said her lover, "make me contempti-
ble in my own eyes, to boast of what may raise
me in your estimation?"
   "Flatter not yourself that the task is so easy,
sir," returned Frances, moving towards the cot-
tage; "we converse together, in private, for the
last time; -- but my father would gladly welcome
my mother's kinsman."
   "No, Miss Wharton, I cannot enter his dwel-
ling now: I should conduct in a manner unwor-
thy of myself. You drive me from you, Frances,
in despair. I am going on desperate service, and
may not live to return. Should fortune prove
severe to me, at least do my memory justice;
remember that the last breathing of my soul, will
be for your happiness." So saying he had al-

-
ready placed his foot in the stirrup, but his mis-
tress turning on him a face that was pallid with
emotion, and an eye that pierced his soul with
its thrilling expression, arrested the action, and
he paused.
   "Peyton -- Major Dunwoodie," she said, "can
you ever forget the sacred cause in which you
are enlisted? Your duty both to your God and to
your country, forbid your doing any thing rashly.
The latter has need of your services; besides" -- 
but her voice became choked, and she was unable
to proceed.
   "Besides what?" echoed the youth, springing
to her side, and offering to take her hand in his
own. Frances having, however, recovered her-
self, coldly repulsed him, and continued her walk
homeward.
   "Miss Wharton, is this our parting!" cried
Dunwoodie, in agony; "am I a wretch, that you
treat me so cruelly? You have never loved me,
and wish to conceal your own fickleness by accu-
sations against me that you will not explain."
   Frances stopped short in her walk, and turned
on her lover a look of so much purity and feeling,
that, heart-stricken, Dunwoodie would have knelt
at her feet for pardon; but motioning him for
silence, she once more spoke -- 
   "Hear me, Major Dunwoodie, for the last time;
it is a bitter knowledge when we first discover our
own inferiority; but it is a truth that I have lately
learnt. Against you I bring no charges -- make no
accusations -- no: not willingly in my thoughts.
Were my claims to your heart just, I am not
worthy of you. It is not a feeble, timid girl like
me, that could make you happy. No, Peyton,
you are formed for great and glorious actions,
deeds of daring and renown, and should be united
to a soul like your own: one that can rise above

-
the weakness of her sex. I should be a weight to
drag you to the dust; but with a different spirit in
your companion, you might soar to the very pin-
nacle of earthly glory. To such an one, therefore,
I resign you freely, if not cheerfully; and pray,
oh! how fervently, that with such an one you may
be happy."
   "Lovely enthusiast," cried Dunwoodie, "you
know not yourself nor me. It is a woman, mild,
gentle, and dependant as yourself that my very
nature loves -- deceive not yourself with visionary
ideas of generosity, which will only make me mise-
rable."
   "Farewell, Major Dunwoodie," said the maid,
pausing for a moment to gasp for breath; "forget
that you ever knew me -- remember the claims of
your bleeding country and be happy."
