
    
   The pedlar dropped the folds of the great coat
that concealed his features, and gazed for a mo-
ment wildly at the face of the speaker, and then
dropping his head upon his bosom, said meekly -- 
   "If it is your excellency's pleasure."
   "It is necessary -- since I have filled the station
which I now hold, it has become my duty to know
many men, who, like yourself, have been my in-
struments in procuring intelligence -- you have I
trusted more than all; I early saw in you a re-
gard to truth and principle that, I am pleased to
say, has never deceived me -- you alone know my
secret agents in the city, and on your fidelity de-
pends, not only their fortunes, but their lives."
   He paused, as if to reflect, in order that full
justice might be done to the pedlar, and then con-
tinued -- 
   "I believe you are one of the very few that I
have employed, who have acted faithfully to our
cause; and while you have passed as a spy of the
enemy's, have never given intelligence that you
were not permitted to divulge; to me, and to me
only of all the world, you seem to have acted
with a strong attaehment to the liberties of Ame-
rica."
   During this address, Harvey had gradually rais-
ed his head from his bosom, until it reached the
highest point of elevation; a faint tinge gathered
in his cheeks, and as the officer concluded, it was
diffused over his whole countenance in a deep
glow, and he stood proudly swelling with his emo-
tions, but with eyes that humbly sought the feet
of the speaker. -- 
   "It is now my duty to pay you for your ser-
vices -- hitherto you have postponed receiving
your reward, and the debt has become a heavy
one -- I wish not to undervalue your dangers;
here are an hundred joes -- you will remember the

-
poverty of our country, and attribute to it the
smallness of your pay."
   The pedlar raised his eyes to the countenance
of the speaker with amazement, and as the other
held forth the money, he moved back as if from
contagion.
   "It is not much for your services and risks, I
acknowledge," said the general, "but it is all that
I have to offer; at the end of the campaign, it may
be in my power to increase it."
   "Never!" said Birch, speaking out; "was it
for money that I did all this?"
   "If not for money, what then?"
   "What has brought your excellency into the
field? For what do you daily and hourly expose
your precious life to battle and the halter? What
is there about me to mourn, when such men as
your excellency risk their all for our country? No
-- no -- no -- not a dollar of your gold will I touch;
poor America has need of if all!"
   The bag dropped from the hand of the officer,
and fell at the feet of the pedlar, where it lay ne-
glected during the remainder of their interview.
The officer looked steadily at the face of his com-
panion, and continued -- 
   "There are many motives which might govern
me, that to you are unknown. Our situations are
different; I am known as the leader of armies -- 
but you must descend into the grave with the re-
putation of a foe to your native land. Remem-
ber, that the veil which conceals your true cha-
racter cannot be raised in years -- perhaps never."
   Birch again lowered his face, but there was no
yielding of the soul betrayed in the movement.
   "You will soon be old; the prime of your days
is already past; what have you to subsist on?"
   "These!" said the pedlar, stretching forth his
hands, that were already embrowned with toil.

-
    
   "But those may fail you; take enough to se-
cure a support to your age. Remember your
risks and cares. I have told you, that the charac-
ters of men, who are much esteemed in life, de-
pend upon your secrecy; what pledge can I give
them of your fidelity?"
   "Tell them," said Birch, advancing, and uncon-
sciously resting one foot on the bag, "tell them
that I would not take the gold."
   The composed features of the officer relaxed
into a fine smile of benevolence, and he grasped
the hand of the pedlar firmly.
   "Now, indeed, I know you; and although the
same reasons which have hitherto compelled me
to expose your valuable life, will still exist, and
prevent my openly asserting your character, in
private I can always be your friend -- fail not to
apply to me when in want or suffering, and so
long as God giveth to me, so long will I freely
share with a man who feels so nobly, and acts so
well. If sickness or want should ever assail you,
and peace once more smiles upon our efforts, seek
the gate of him whom you have often met as Har-
per, and he will not blush to acknowledge you in
his true character."
   "It is little that I need in this life," said Har-
vey, the glow still mantling over his features."
"So long as God gives me health and honest in-
dustry, I can never want in this happy country -- 
but to know that your Excellency is my friend, is
a blessing that I prize more than all the gold of
England's treasury."
   The officer stood for a few moments in the atti-
tude of intense thought. He then drew to him
the desk, and wrote a few lines on a piece of
paper, and gave it to the pedlar as he addressed
him -- 
   "That Providence destines this country to some

-
great and glorious fate I must believe, while I
witness the patriotism that pervades the bosoms
of her lowest citizens. It must be dreadful to a
mind like yours to descend into the grave, branded
as a foe to liberty; but you already know the
lives that would be sacrificed should your real
character be revealed. It is impossible to do you
justice now, but I fearlessly entrust you with this
certificate -- should we never meet again, it may
be serviceable to your children."
   "Children!" exclaimed the pedlar. "Can I
give to a family the infamy of my name."
   The officer gazed at the strong emotion he ex-
hibited with painful amazement, and made a
slight movement towards the gold; but it was
arrested by the proud expression of his compa-
nion's face. Harvey saw the intention, and shook
his head, as he continued more mildly, and with
an air of deep respect -- 
   "It is, indeed, a treasure that your Excellency
gives me -- it is safe too. -- There are those living
who could say, that my life was nothing to me,
compared to your secrets. The paper that I told
you was lost, I swallowed when taken last by the
Virginians. It was the only time I ever deceived
your Excellency, and it shall be the last -- yes,
this is, indeed a treasure to me -- perhaps," he
continued with a melancholy smile, "It may be
known after my death who was my friend, and if
it should not, there are none to grieve for me."
   "Remember," said the officer, with strong emo-
tion, "that in me you will always have a secret
friend; but openly I cannot know you."
   "I know it -- I know it," said Birch; "I knew
it when I took the service. 'Tis probably the last
time that I shall ever see your excellency. May
God pour down his choicest blessings on your
head." He paused, and moved towards the door.

