
-
The officer followed him with eyes that expressed
powerful interest. Once more the pedlar turned,
and seemed to gaze on the placid, but commanding
features of the General, with regret and reverence,
and then, bowing low, he withdrew.
   The armies of America and France were led by
their common leader, against the enemy under
Cornwallis, and terminated a campaign in tri-
umph, that had commenced in difficulties. Great
Britain soon after became disgusted with the war,
and the independence of the States was acknow-
ledged.
   As years rolled by, it became a subject of pride
to the different actors in the war, and their des-
cendants, to boast of their efforts in the cause
which had confessedly heaped so many blessings
upon their country; but the name of Harvey Birch
died away among the multitude of agents who were
thought to have laboured in secret against the rights
of their countrymen. His image, however, was often
present to the mind of the powerful chief, who alone
knew his true character, and several times did he
cause secret inquiries to be made into his fate -- 
one of which only resulted in any success. By
this, he learnt that a pedlar of a different name,
but similar appearance, was toiling through the
new settlements that were springing up in every
direction, and that he was struggling with the ad-
vance of years, and apparent poverty. Death
prevented further inquiries on the part of the of-
ficer, and a long period passed before the pedlar
was again heard of.

-
Chapter 19
CHAPTER XIX.
     "Some village Hampden, that with dauntless breast, 
The little tyrant of his fields withstood -- 
Some mute, inglorious Milton here may rest; 
Some Cromwell, guiltless of his Country's blood." 
Gray 
    
   It was thirty-three years after the interview,
which we have just related, that an Ame-
rican army was once more arrayed against the
country of their ancestors; but the scene was
transferred from the banks of the Hudson to those
of the Niagara.
   The body of Washington had long lain moulder-
ing in the tomb; but as time was fast obliterating
the slight impressions of political enmity or per-
sonal envy, his name was hourly receiving new
lustre, and his worth and integrity each moment
became more visible, not only to his countrymen,
but to the world. He was already the acknow-
ledged hero of an age of reason and truth; and
many a young heart, amongst those who formed
the pride of our army in 1814, was glowing with
the recollection of the one great name of Ameri-
ca, and inwardly beating with the sanguine ex-
pectation of emulating, in some degree, its re-
nown. In no one were these virtuous hopes more
vivid, than in the bosom of a young officer, who
stood on the table-rock, contemplating the great
cataract, on the evening of the 25th of July, of
that bloody year. The person of this youth was

-
tall and finely moulded, indicating a just propor-
tion between strength and activity; his eyes of a
deep black, were of a searching and dazzling
brightness. At times, as they gazed upon the
flood of waters that rushed tumultuously at his
feet, there was a stern and daring look that flash-
ed from them, which denoted the ardor of an
enthusiast. But this proud expression was soften-
ed by the lines of a mouth, around which there
played a suppressed archness, that partook of fe-
minine beauty. His hair shone in the setting sun
like ringlets of gold, as the air from the falls
gently moved the rich curls from a forehead, whose
whiteness showed that exposure and heat alone
had given their darker hue, to a face glowing with
health. There was another officer standing by
the side of this favoured youth, and both seemed,
by the interest that they betrayed, to be gazing
for the first time at this wonder of the western
world. A profound silence was observed by each
of the soldiers, until the companion of the officer
that we have described, suddenly started, and
pointing eagerly with his sword into the abyss be-
neath, exclaimed -- 
   "See! Wharton: there is a man crossing in
the very eddies of the cataract, and in a skiff no
bigger than an egg-shell."
   "He has a knapsack, and is probably a sol-
dier," returned the other. "Let us meet him at
the ladder, Mason, and learn his tidings."
   Some time was expended in reaching the spot
where the adventurer was intercepted. Contrary
to the expectations of the young soldiers, he prov-
ed to be a man far advanced in life, and evidently
no follower of the camp. His years might be se-
venty, and were indicated more by the thin hairs
of silver that lay scattered over his wrinkled brow,
than by any apparent failure of his system. His

-
frame was meagre and bent; but it was the atti-
tude of habit, for his sinews were strung with the
toil of half a century. His dress was mean, and
manifested the economy of its owner, by the num-
ber and nature of its repairs. On his back was a
scantily furnished pack, that had led to the mis-
take in his profession. A few words of salutation,
and on the part of the young men of surprise,
that one so aged should venture so near the whirl-
pools of the cataract, were exchanged; when the
old man inquired, with a voice that began to
manifest the tremor of age, the news from the
contending armies.
   "We whipt the red-coats here, the other day,
among the grass on the Chippewa plains," said
the one who was called Mason; "since when, old
daddy, we have been playing hide-and-go-peep
with the ships -- but we are now marching back
from where we started, shaking our heads, and as
surly as the devil."
   "Perhaps you have a son among the soldiers,"
said his companion with a more polished demea-
nor, and an air of kindness; "if so, tell me his
name and regiment, and I will take you to him."
   The old man shook his head. and, passing his
hand over his silver locks, with an air of meek
resignation cast his eyes for a moment to heaven
and answered -- 
   "No -- I am alone in the world!"
   "You should have added, Captain Dunwoodie,"
cried his careless comrade, "if you could find
either; for nearly half of our army have marched
down the road, and may be, by this time, under the
walls of fort George, for any thing that we know
to the contrary."
   The old man stopped suddenly, and looked
earnestly from one of his companions to the other;

-
the action being noticed by the soldiers, they
paused also.
   "Did I hear right," at length the stranger ut-
tered, raising his hand to skreen his eyes from the
rays of the setting sun; "what did he call you?"
   "My name is Wharton Dunwoodie," replied the
youth, smiling.
   The stranger motioned silently for him to re-
move his hat, which the youth did accordingly,
and his fair hair blew aside like curls of silk, and
opened the whole of his ingenuous countenance to
the inspection of the other.
   "'Tis like our native land," exclaimed the old
man, with a vehemence that astonished his com-
panions, "improving with time -- God has blessed
both."
