
   "Why do you stare thus, Lieutenant Mason,"
cried Captain Dunwoodie, laughing and blushing
a little; "you show more astonishment than when
you saw the falls."
   "Oh! the falls -- they are a thing to be looked
at on a moonshiny night, by your aunt Sarah and
that gay old bachelor, Colonel Singleton; but a
fellow like myself never shows surprise, unless it
may be at such a touch as this."
   The extraordinary vehemence of the stranger's
manner had passed away, as suddenly as it was ex-
hibited, but he listened to this speech apparently
with deep interest, while Dunwoodie replied a
little gravely -- 
   "Come, come, Tom -- no jokes about my good
aunt, I beg -- she is kind and attentive to me, and
I have heard it whispered that her youth was not
altogether happy."
   "Why as to rumour," said Mason, "there goes
one in Accomac, that Colonel Singleton offers
himself to her regularly every Valentine's day;

-
and there are some who add, that your old great-
aunt helps his suit."
   "Aunt Jeanette!" said Dunwoodie, laughing,
"dear good soul, she thinks but little of marriage
in any shape, I believe, since the death of Dr.
Sitgreaves. There was some whispers of a court-
ship between them formerly, but it ended in nothing
but civilities, and I suspect that the whole story
arises from the intimacy of Colonel Singleton and
my father. You know they were comrades in the
horse, as was your own father."
   "I know all that, of course; but you must not
tell me that the particular, prim, bachelor goes so
often to General Dunwoodie's plantation, merely
for the sake of talking old soldier with your father.
The last time I was there, that yellow, sharp nosed,
kind of a housekeeper of your mother's, took me
into the pantry, and said that the Colonel was no
dispiseable match, as she called it, and how the
sale of his plantation in Georgia had brought him -- 
Oh! Lord, I don't know how much."
   "Quite likely," returned the Captain; "Katy
Haynes is a famous calculator.
   They had stopped during this conversation in a
kind of uncertainty, whether their new companion
was to be left or not.
   The old man listened to each word as it was ut-
tered, with the most intense interest, but towards
the conclusion of the dialogue, the earnest atten-
tion of his countenance changed to a kind of in-
ward smile. He shook his head, and passing his
hand over his forehead, seemed to be thinking of
other times. Mason paid but little attention to
the expression of his features, and continued -- 
   "Yes -- she is all that; for herself too, I believe,
sometimes."
   "Her selfishness does but little harm," returned
Dunwoodie, smiling, as if in recollection of past

-
scenes. "One of her greatest difficulties is her
aversion to the blacks. She says that she never
saw but one that she liked."
   "And who was he?"
   "His name was Cæsar; he was a house servant
of my late grand father, Wharton. You don't re-
member him, I believe; he died the same year
with his master, while we were children. Katy
yearly sings his requiem, and upon my word,
I believe he deserved it. I have heard something
of his helping my English uncle, as we call Gene-
ral Wharton, in some difficulty that occurred in the
old war. My mother always speaks of him with
great affection. Both Cæsar and Katy came to
Virginia with my mother when she married. -- 
My mother was -- "
   "An angel!" interrupted the old man, in a
voice that startled the young soldiers by its ab-
ruptness and energy.
   "Did you know her?" cried the son, with a
bright glow of pleasure on his cheek.
   The reply of the stranger was interrupted by
sudden and heavy explosions of artillery, which
were immediately followed by continued volleys
of small arms, and in a few minutes the air was fil-
led with the tumult of a warm and well contested
battle.
   The two soldiers hastened with precipitation
towards their camp, accompanied by their new
acquaintance. The excitement and anxiety cre-
ated by the approaching fight, prevented a con-
tinuance of the conversation, and the three held
their way to the army, making occasional conjec-
tures on the cause of the fire and the probability of
a general engagement. During their short and
hurried walk, Captain Dunwoodie, however, threw
several friendly glances at the old man, who
moved over the ground with astonishing energy

-
for his years, for the heart of the youth was warm-
ed by the eulogium on a mother that he adored. -- 
In a short time, they joined the regiment to which
the youth belonged, when the Captain squeez-
ing the stranger's hand, earnestly begged that he
would make inquiries after him on the following
morning, and that he might see him in his own
tent. Here they separated.
   Every thing in the American camp gave indica-
tions of an approaching struggle. At a distance
of a few miles the sound of cannon and musketry,
was heard above even the roar of the cataract.
The troops were soon in motion, and a movement
made to support that division of the army that was
already engaged. Night had set in before the re-
serve and irregulars reached the foot of Lundy's
lane, a road that diverged from the river and cros-
sed a conical eminence, at no great distance from
the Niagara highway. The summit of this hill
was crowned with the cannon of the British, and
in the flat beneath were the remnant of Scott's
gallant brigade, which had for a long time held an
unequal contest, with distinguished bravery. A
new line was interposed, and one column of the
Americans directed to charge up the hill, parallel
to the road. This column took the English in
flank, and, bayonetting their artillerists, gained
possession of the cannon. They were immediately
joined by their comrades and the enemy was
swept from the hill. But large reinforcements
were joining the English general momentarily,
and their troops were too brave to rest easy un-
der the defeat. Repeated and bloody charges
were made to recover the guns, but in all they
were repulsed with slaughter. During the last
of these struggles, the ardor of the youthful cap-
tain whom we have mentioned, urged him to lead
his men some distance in advance, to scatter a dar-

-
ing party of the enemy -- he succeeded, but in
returning to the line missed his lieutenant from
the station that he ought to have occupied. Soon
after this repulse, which was the last, orders were
given to the shattered troops to return to the
camp. The British were no where to be seen,
and preparations were made to take in such of
the wounded as could be moved. At this moment
Wharton Dunwoodie, impelled by affection for
his friend, seized a lighted fuse, and taking two
of his men, went himself in quest of his body,
where he was supposed to have fallen. Mason
was found on the side of the hill, seated with
great composure, but unable to walk from a frac-
tured leg. Dunwoodie saw and flew to the side
of his comrade, exclaiming -- 
   "Ah! dear Tom, I knew I should find you the
nearest man to the enemy."
   "Softly -- softly -- handle me tenderly," replied
the Lieutenant; "no, there is a brave fellow
still nearer than myself, and who he can be I
know not. He rushed out of our smoke near my
platoon, to make a prisoner or some such thing,
but, poor fellow, he never came back; there he
lies just over the hillock. I have spoken to him
several times, but I fancy he is past answering."
   Dunwoodie went to the spot, and to his aston-
ishment beheld the aged stranger.
   "It is the old man who knew my mother!" cried
the youth; "for her sake he shall have honoura-
ble burial -- life him, and let him be be carried in;
his bones shall rest on native soil."
   The men approached to obey. He was lying
on his back, with his face exposed to the glaring
light of the fuse; his eyes were closed, as if in
slumber; -- his lips, sunken with years, were slight-
ly moved from their natural position, but it seem-
ed more like a smile than a convulsion, which

-
