
   "Happy!" repeated the youthful soldier bit-
terly, as he saw her light form gliding through the
gate of the lawn, and disappearing behind its shrub-
bery; "Oh! yes, I am now happy indeed."
   Throwing himself into the saddle, he plunged his
spurs into his horse and soon overtook his squad-
ron, which was marching slowly over the hilly
roads of the county to gain the banks of the Hud-
son.
   But painful as were the feelings of Dun-
woodie at this unexpected termination to the in-
terview with his mistress, they were but light com-
pared to those which were experienced by the
maiden herself. Frances had, with the keen eye of
jealous love, easily detected the attachment of Isa-
bella Singleton to Dunwoodie. Delicate and retir-
ing herself as the fairest visions of romance had ever
portrayed her sex, it never could present itself to
the mind of Frances, that this love had been un-
sought. Ardent in her own affections, and artless
in their exhibition, she had early caught the eye

-
of the youthful soldier; but it required all the
manly frankness of Dunwoodie to court her fa-
vour, and the most pointed devotion to obtain
his conquest. This once done -- his power was
durable, entire, and engrossing. But the unusual
occurrences of the few preceding days, the altered
mien of her lover during those events, his unwont-
ed indifference to herself, and chiefly the roman-
tic idolatry of Isabella, had aroused new sensa-
tions in her bosom. With a dread of her lover's
integrity had been awakened the never-failing
concomitant of the purest affection -- a distrust of
her own merits. In the moment of enthusiasm,
the task of resigning her lover to another, who
might be more worthy of him, seemed easy -- but it
is in vain that the imagination attempts to deceive
the heart. Dunwoodie had no sooner disappear-
ed, than our heroine felt all the misery of her
situation; and if the youth found some relief in
the cares of his command from his anxiety of mind,
Frances was less fortunate in the performance of
a duty imposed on her by filial piety. -- The re-
moval of his son had nearly destroyed the little
energy of Mr. Wharton, who required all the ten-
derness of his remaining children to convince him
that he was able to perform the ordinary functions
of life.

-
Chapter 4
CHAPTER IV.
"Flatter and praise, commend, extol their graces, 
Though ne'er so black, say they have angels' faces; 
That man who bath a tongue, I say, is no man, 
If with that tongue he cannot win a woman." 
Two Gentlemen of Verona. 
    
   In making the arrangement by which Captain
Lawton had been left, with Sergeant Hollister
and twelve men, as a guard over the wounded and
heavy baggage of the corps, Dunwoodie had con-
suited not only the information which had been con-
veyed in the letter of Col. Singleton, but the sup-
posed bruises of his comrade's body. It was in
vain that Lawton had declared himself fit for any
duty that man could perform, or that he had plainly
intimated that his men would never follow Tom
Mason to a charge, with the alacrity and confi-
dence with which they followed himself; his com-
mander was firm, and the reluctant captain was
compelled to comply with as good a grace as he
could assume. Before parting, Dunwoodie re-
newed his caution to Lawton, to keep a watchful
eye on the inmates of the cottage, and especially
enjoined him, if any movements of a particularly
suspicious nature were noticed in the neighbour-
hood, to break up from his present quarters, and
move down with his party, and to take possession
of the domains of Mr. Wharton. A vague suspi-
cion of danger to the family had been awakened
in the breast of the major, by the language of the
pedlar, although he was unable to refer it to
any particular source, or understand why it was to
be apprehended.

-
    
   For some time after the departure of the
troops, the captain was walking to and fro, be-
fore the door of the "Hotel," inwardly cursing
his fate that condemned him to an inglorious idle-
ness, at a moment when a meeting with the enemy
might be expected, and replying to the occasional
queries of Betty, who from the interior of the build-
ing, ever and anon, demanded in a high tone of
voice, an explanation of various points in the ped-
lar's escape that as yet she could not comprehend.
At this instant he was joined by the surgeon, who
had hitherto been engaged among his patients in
a distant building, and was profoundly ignorant of
every thing that had occurred, even to the depar-
ture of the troops.
   "Where are all the sentinels, John," he in-
quired, as he gazed around with a look of curiosi-
ty, "and why are you here alone?"
   "Off -- all off, with Dunwoodie, to the river. Yon
and I are left here to take care of a few sick men,
and some women."
   "I am glad, however," said the surgeon, "that
Major Dunwoodie had consideration enough, not
to move the wounded. Here, you Mrs. Elizabeth
Flannagan, hasten with some food, that I may ap-
pease my appetite. I have a dead body to dissect,
and am in a hurry."
   "And here you, Mister Doctor Archibald Sit-
greaves," echoed Betty, showing her blooming
countenance from a broken window of the kitchen,
"you are ever a coming too late; here is nothing
to ate but the skin of Jenny and the body you are
mintioning."
   "Woman," said the surgeon, in anger, "do you
take me for a cannibal, that you address your fil-
thy discourse to me in this manner. -- I bid you
hasten with such food as may be proper to be re-
ceived into the stomach fasting."

-
    
   "And I'm sure its for a pop-gun that I should be
taking you sooner than for a cannon-ball," said
Betty, winking at the captain, "and I tell you that
its fasting you must be, unless you will let me cook
you a steak from the skin of Jenny. The boys
have eaten me up entirely."
   Lawton now interfered to preserve the peace,
and assured the surgeon that he had already des-
patched the proper persons in quest of food for
the party. A little mollified with this explanation,
the operator soon forgot his hunger, and declared
his intention of proceeding to business at once.
   "And where is your subject?" asked Lawton,
gravely.
   "The pedlar," said the other, gazing on the
sign-post; "you see I made Hollister put a stage
so high that the neck would not be dislocated by
the fall, and I intend making as handsome a skeleton
of him, as there is in the States of North-America
-- the fellow has good points, and his bones are
well knit. Oh! Jack, I will make a perfect beau-
ty of him. I have long been wanting something
of the sort to send as a present to my old aunt in
Virginia, who was so kind to me when a boy."
   "The devil!" cried Lawton; "would you send
the old woman a dead man's bones."
   "Why not?" said the surgeon; "what nobler
object is there in nature than the figure of a man -- 
and a skeleton may be called his elementary parts.
But what has been done with the body?"
   "Off too."
   "Off!" echoed the panic stricken operator;
"and who has dared to take it away without my
leave."
   "Sure jist the divil," said Betty; "and who'll
be after taking yourself away some of these times
too, without asking your lave."
   "Silence, you witch," said Lawton, with diffi-
