

-
culty suppressing a laugh; "is this the manner
in which to address an officer."
   "Who called me the filthy Elizabeth Flanna-
gan," cried the washerwoman, snapping her fin-
gers contemptuously. "I can remimber a frind for
a year, and don't forgit an inimy for a month."
   But the friendship or enmity of Mrs. Flannagan
were alike indifferent to the surgeon, who could
think of nothing but his loss; and Lawton was
obliged to explain to his friend the apparent man-
ner in which it happened.
   "And a lucky escape it was for you, my jewel of
a doctor," cried Betty, as the captain concluded.
"Sergeant Hollister, who saw him face to face, as
it might be, says it's Beelzeboob, and no pedlar, un-
less it may be in a small matter of lies and thefts,
and sich wickednesses. Now a pretty figure you
would have been in cutting up Beelzeboob, if the
major had hung him. I don't think it's very asy
he would have been under your knife."
   Thus doubly disappointed in both his meal and
his business, Sitgreaves suddenly declared his in-
tention of visiting the "Locusts," and inquiring
into the state of Captain Singleton. Lawton was
ready for the excursion, and mounting they were
soon on the road, though the surgeon was obliged
to submit to a few more jokes from the washerwo-
man, before he could get out of hearing. For
some time the two rode in silence, when Lawton
perceiving that his companion's temper was some-
what ruffled by his disappointments and Betty's
attack, made an effort to restore the tranquillity of
his feelings, by saying -- 
   "That was a charming song, Archibald, that
you commenced, last evening, when we were inter-
rupted by the party that brought the pedlar. The
allusion to Galen was extremely neat."
   "I knew you would like it, Jack, when your

-
eyes were opened to its beauties," returned the
operator, suffering his muscles to relax into a smile;
"but when the brain has become confused by the
fumes of wine ascending from the stomach, intoxi-
cation is liable to ensue, and the faculties by no
means continue qualified to discriminate, either in
matters of taste or of science."
   "And yet your ode partook largely of both," ob-
served Lawton, suffering no part of him to smile
but his eyes.
   "Ode is by no means a proper term for the
composition," said Sitgreaves. "I should rather
term it a classical ballad."
   "Very probably," said the trooper; "hearing
only one verse, it was difficult to affix a name to
it."
   The surgeon involuntarily hem'd, and began to
clear his throat, although by no means conscious
himself to what the preparation tended. But the
captain rolling his dark eye towards his compa-
nion, and observing him to be sitting with great
uneasiness on his horse, continued -- 
   "The air is still, and the road solitary -- why
not give me the remainder -- it might correct the
bad taste you accuse me of possessing, to hear it."
   "Oh! my dear John, if I thought it would cor-
rect the errors you have imbibed, from habit and
indulgence, nothing could give me more plea-
sure."
   "Try; we are fast approaching some rocks on
our left -- the echo from them, I should think, must
be delightful."
   Thus encouraged, and somewhat impelled by
the opinion that he both sung and wrote with ex-
quisite taste, the surgeon set about complying with
the request in sober earnest. After carefully re-
moving his spectacles from his eyes, and wiping
the glasses, they were replaced with the utmost

-
accuracy and precision; his wig was adjusted to
his head with mathematical symmetry, and his voice
being cleared by various efforts until at length its
melody pleased the exquisite sensibility of his own
ear -- then, to the no small delight of the trooper,
he begun anew the ditty of the preceding evening.
But whether it was that his steed became enliven-
ed by the notes of his master, or that he caught a
disposition to trot from Lawton's charger, the sur-
geon had not concluded his second verse, before
his tones vibrated in regular cadence to the rise
and fall of his own body on the saddle. Notwith-
standing this somewhat inharmonious interruption,
Sitgreaves resolutely persevered, until he had got
through with the following words -- 
"Hast thou ever felt love's dart, dearest, 
     Or breathed his trembling sigh -- 
Thought him afar, was ever nearest 
     Before that sparkling eye? 
Then hast thou known what 'tis to feel 
The pain that Galen could not heal. 
Hast thou ever known shame's blush, dearest, 
     Or felt its thrilling smart 
Suffuse thy cheek, like marble, clearest, 
     As Damon read thy heart? 
Then, silly girl, thou'st blush'd to own 
A pain that Harvey e'en has known. 
But for each pain of thine, dearest, 
     Or smart of keen love's wound, 
For all that, foolish maid, thou fearest, 
     An antidote is found. 
And mighty Hymen's art can heal 
Each wound that youthful lovers feel. 
Hast thou ever" -- 
   "Hush!" interrupted the trooper; "what rus-
tling noise is that, among the rocks?"
   "The echo. -- 
"Hast thou ever" -- 
   "Listen," said Lawton, stopping his horse. He
had not done speaking when a stone fell at his
feet, and rolled harmlessly across the path.

-
    
   "A friendly shot, that," cried the trooper,
"neither the weapon, nor its force, implies much
ill will towards us."
   "Blows from stones seldom produce more than
contusions," said the operator, bending his gaze
in every direction in vain, in quest of the hand
from which the missile had been hurled; "it must
be meteoric -- there is no living being in sight, ex-
cept ourselves."
   "It would be easy to hide a regiment behind
those rocks," returned the trooper, dismounting,
and taking the stone in his hand, -- "Oh! here is
the explanation, along with the mystery." So
saying, he tore a piece of paper that had been in-
geniously fastened to the small fragment of rock
which had thus singularly fallen before him, and
opening it, the captain read the following words
written in no very legible hand.
   "A musket bullet will go farther than a stone,
and things more dangerous than yarbs for wounded
men, lie hid in the rocks of West-Chester. The
steed may be good, but can he mount a preci-
pice?"
