
   "Thou sayest the truth, strange man," said
Lawton: "courage and activity would avail but
little against assassination, and these rugged pass-
es." Remounting his horse, he cried aloud -- 
"Thanks, unknown friend -- your caution will be
remembered, and it shall never be forgotten that
all my enemies are not merciless."
   A meagre hand was extended for an instant over
a rock, waving in the air, and afterwards nothing
further was seen or heard by the soldiers.
   "Quite an extraordinary interruption," said the
astonished operator, "and a letter of a very mys-
terious meaning."
   "Oh! 'tis nothing but the wit of some bumpkin
who thinks to frighten two of the Virginians by an

-
artifice of this kind," said the trooper, placing the
billet in his pocket; "but let me tell you, Mr.
Archibald Sitgreaves, you were wanting to dissect
just now, a damn'd honest fellow."
   "It was the pedlar -- one of the most notorious
spies in the enemy's service," returned the other;
"and I must say, that I think it an honour to such
a man to be devoted to the use of science."
   "He may be a spy -- he must be one," said
Lawton, musing; "but he has a heart above en-
mity, and a soul that would honour a gallant sol-
dier."
   The surgeon turned an inquiring eye on his
companion as he uttered this soliloquy, while the
penetrating looks of the trooper had already dis-
covered another pile of rocks, which jutting for-
ward, nearly obstructed the highway that wound
directly around its base.
   "What the steed cannot mount, the foot of
man can overcome," exclaimed the wary partisan.
Throwing himself again from his saddle, and leap-
ing a wall of stone, he began to ascend the hill at
a place which would soon have given him a birds'
eye view of the rocks in question, together with
all their crevices. This movement was no sooner
made than Lawton caught a glimpse of the figure
of a man stealing rapidly from his approach, and
disappearing on the opposite side of the preci-
pice.
   "Spur -- Sitgreaves -- Spur," shouted the troop-
er, dashing over every impediment in pursuit,
"and murder the villain as he flies."
   The request was promptly complied with, and
a few moments brought the surgeon in full
view of a man armed with a musket, who was
crossing the road, and evidently seeking the pro-
tection of the thick wood on its opposite side.
   "Stop, my friend -- stop until Captain Lawton

-
comes up, if you please," cried the surgeon, ob-
serving him to flee with a rapidity that baffled his
horsemanship. But as if the invitation contained
new terrors, the footman redoubled his efforts, nor
paused even to breathe, until he had reached his
goal, when, turning his on heel, he discharged his
musket towards the operator, and was out of sight
in an instant. To gain the highway and throw
himself in his saddle detained Lawton but a mo-
ment, and he rode to the side of his comrade just
as the figure had disappeared.
   "Which way has he fled?" cried the trooper.
   "John," said the surgeon, "am I not a non-
combatant?"
   "Whither has the rascal fled?" cried Lawton
again, impatiently.
   "Where you cannot follow -- into that wood,"
returned the surgeon. "But I repeat, John, am I
not a non-combatant?"
   The disappointed trooper perceiving that his
enemy had escaped him, now turned his eyes,
which were flashing with anger under his dark
brows, upon his comrade, and gradually his mus-
cles lost their rigid compression, his brow relaxed
and his eyes changed from their fierce expression,
to the covert laughter which so often distinguished
that organ in the trooper. The surgeon sat in
dignified composure on his horse; his thin body
erect, and head elevated with all the indignity of
conscious injustice towards himself -- his specta-
cles had been shaken down to the extreme end of
the ample member on which they rested, and his
eyes were glaring above them with the fullness
of indignation.
   A slight convulsive effort composed the muscles
of the trooper's face, however, and he broke the
silence again, by saying -- 

-
"Why did you suffer the rascal to escape -- had you
but brought him within the reach of my sabre, I
would have given you a substitute for the pedlar."
   "'Twas impossible to prevent it," said the sur-
geon, pointing to the bars, before which he had
stopped his horse; "he threw himself on the other
side of this fence, and left me where you see -- nor
would the man in the least attend to my remon-
strances, or intimation that you wished to hold dis-
course with him."
   "No!" exclaimed Lawton, in an affected sur-
prise; "he was truly a discourteous rascal; but
why did you not leap the fence, and compel him
to a halt -- you see but three of the bars are up, and
Betty Flannagan could clear them, on her cow."
   The surgeon, for the first time, withdrew his eyes
from the place where the fugitive had disappear-
ed, and turned his countenance towards his com-
rade. His head, however, was not permitted to
lower itself in the least, as he replied -- 
   "I humbly conceive, Captain Lawton, that nei-
ther Mrs. Elizabeth Flannagan, nor her cow, are
examples to be emulated by Doctor Archibald
Sitgreaves -- it would be but a sorry compliment
to science to say that a Doctor of Medicine had
fractured both his legs, by injudiciously striking
them against a pair of bar-posts." While speak-
ing, the surgeon raised the limbs in question to
a nearly horizontal position, that really appear-
ed to bid defiance to any thing like a passage for
himself through the defile; but the trooper, disre-
garding this ocular proof of the impossibility of
the movement, cried hastily -- 
   "Here was nothing to stop you man; I could
leap a platoon through, boot and thigh, without
pricking with a single spur. Pshaw, I have often
charged upon the bayonets of infantry over great-
er difficulties than this."

-
    
   "You will please to remember, Captain John
Lawton," said the surgeon, with a most imposing
air of offended dignity, "that I am not the riding
master to the regiment -- nor a drill sergeant -- nor
a crazy cornet -- no, sir -- and I speak it with a due
respect for the commission of the continental Con-
gress -- nor an inconsiderate captain who regards
his own life as little as that of his enemies. I am
only, sir, a poor, humble man of letters, a mere
Doctor of Medicine, an unworthy graduate of
Edinburgh, and a surgeon of dragoons, nothing
more I do assure you, Captain John Lawton."
So saying, he turned his horse's head towards the
cottage, and re-commenced his ride.
   "Ay! you speak the truth," muttered the dra-
goon; "had I but the meanest rider of my troop
with me, I should have taken the scoundrel, and
given at least one victim to the offended laws of
my country. But, Archibald, no man can ride
well who straddles in this manner like the Colos-
sus of Rhodes. You should depend less on your
stirrup, and keep your seat by the power of the
knee."
   "With proper deference to your experience,
Captain Lawton," returned the surgeon, "I con-
ceive myself to be no incompetent judge of mus-
cular action, whether in the knee or any other
part of the human frame. And although but hum-
bly educated, I am not now to learn, that the
wider the base, the more firm is the superstruc-
ture."
   "Yes, but damn it," cried Lawton, impatient-
ly, "would you fill a highway in this manner with
one pair of legs, when half a dozen might pass
together in comfort -- stretching them abroad like
the scythes to the ancient chariot wheels."
   The allusion to the practice of the ancients
