
        Sir Kenelm Digby, a courtier of Charles and James, who won the
sea-fight of Scanderoon, was a model Englishman in his day.  "His
person was handsome and gigantic, he had so graceful elocution and
noble address, that, had he been dropt out of the clouds in any part
of the world, he would have made himself respected: he was skilled in
six tongues, and master of arts and arms." (* 1) Sir Kenelm wrote a
book, "Of Bodies and of Souls," in which he propounds, that
"syllogisms do breed or rather are all the variety of man's life.
They are the steps by which we walk in all our businesses.  Man, as
he is man, doth nothing else but weave such chains.  Whatsoever he
doth, swarving from this work, he doth as deficient from the nature
of man: and, if he do aught beyond this, by breaking out into divers
sorts of exterior actions, he findeth, nevertheless, in this linked
sequel of simple discourses, the art, the cause, the rule, the
bounds, and the model of it." (* 2)
        There spoke the genius of the English people.  There is a
necessity on them to be logical.  They would hardly greet the good
that did not logically fall, -- as if it excluded their own merit, or
shook their understandings.  They are jealous of minds that have much
facility of association, from an instinctive fear that the seeing
many relations to their thought might impair this serial continuity
and lucrative concentration.  They are impatient of genius, or of
minds addicted to contemplation, and cannot conceal their contempt
for sallies of thought, however lawful, whose steps they cannot count
by their wonted rule.  Neither do they reckon better a syllogism that
ends in syllogism.  For they have a supreme eye to facts, and theirs
is a logic that brings salt to soup, hammer to nail, oar to boat, the
logic of cooks, carpenters, and chemists, following the sequence of
nature, and one on which words make no impression.  Their mind is not
dazzled by its own means, but locked and bolted to results.  They
love men, who, like Samuel Johnson, a doctor in the schools, would
jump out of his syllogism the instant his major proposition was in
danger, to save that, at all hazards.  Their practical vision is
spacious, and they can hold many threads without entangling them.
All the steps they orderly take; but with the high logic of never
confounding the minor and major proposition; keeping their eye on
their aim, in all the complicity and delay incident to the several
series of means they employ.  There is room in their minds for this
vand that, -- a science of degrees.  In the courts, the independence
of the judges and the loyalty of the suitors are equally excellent.
In Parliament, they have hit on that capital invention of freedom, a
constitutional opposition.  And when courts and parliament are both
deaf, the plaintiff is not silenced.  Calm, patient, his weapon of
defence from year to year is the obstinate reproduction of the
grievance, with calculations and estimates.  But, meantime, he is
drawing numbers and money to his opinion, resolved that if all remedy
fails, right of revolution is at the bottom of his charter-box.  They
are bound to see their measure carried, and stick to it through ages
of defeat.
        Into this English logic, however, an infusion of justice
enters, not so apparent in other races, -- a belief in the existence
of two sides, and the resolution to see fair play.  There is on every
question, an appeal from the assertion of the parties, to the proof
of what is asserted.  They are impious in their scepticism of a
theory, but kiss the dust before a fact.  Is it a machine, is it a
charter, is it a boxer in the ring, is it a candidate on the
hustings, -- the universe of Englishmen will suspend their judgment,
until the trial can be had.  They are not to be led by a phrase, they
want a working plan, a working machine, a working constitution, and
will sit out the trial, and abide by the issue, and reject all
preconceived theories.  In politics they put blunt questions, which
must be answered; who is to pay the taxes? what will you do for
trade? what for corn? what for the spinner?
        This singular fairness and its results strike the French with
surprise.  Philip de Commines says, "Now, in my opinion, among all
the sovereignties I know in the world, that in which the public good
is best attended to, and the least violence exercised on the people,
is that of England." Life is safe, and personal rights; and what is
freedom, without security? whilst, in France, `fraternity,'
`equality,' and `indivisible unity,' are names for assassination.
Montesquieu said, "England is the freest country in the world.  If a
man in England had as many enemies as hairs on his head, no harm
would happen to him."
        Their self-respect, their faith in causation, and their
realistic logic or coupling of means to ends, have given them the
leadership of the modern world.  Montesquieu said, "No people have
true common sense but those who are born in England." This common
sense is a perception of all the conditions of our earthly existence,
of laws that can be stated, and of laws that cannot be stated, or
that are learned only by practice, in which allowance for friction is
made.  They are impious in their scepticism of theory, and in high
departments they are cramped and sterile.  But the unconditional
surrender to facts, and the choice of means to reach their ends, are
as admirable as with ants and bees.
        The bias of the nation is a passion for utility.  They love the
lever, the screw, and pulley, the Flanders draught-horse, the
waterfall, wind-mills, tide-mills; the sea and the wind to bear their
freight ships.  More than the diamond Koh-i-noor, which glitters
among their crown jewels, they prize that dull pebble which is wiser
than a man, whose poles turn themselves to the poles of the world,
and whose axis is parallel to the axis of the world.  Now, their toys
are steam and galvanism.  They are heavy at the fine arts, but adroit
at the coarse; not good in jewelry or mosaics, but the best
iron-masters, colliers, wool-combers, and tanners, in Europe.  They
apply themselves to agriculture, to draining, to resisting
encroachments of sea, wind, travelling sands, cold and wet sub-soil;
to fishery, to manufacture of indispensable staples, -- salt,
plumbago, leather, wool, glass, pottery, and brick, -- to bees and
silkworms; -- and by their steady combinations they succeed.  A
manufacturer sits down to dinner in a suit of clothes which was wool
on a sheep's back at sunrise.  You dine with a gentleman on venison,
pheasant, quail, pigeons, poultry, mushrooms, and pine-apples, all
the growth of his estate.  They are neat husbands for ordering all
their tools pertaining to house and field.  All are well kept.  There
is no want and no waste.  They study use and fitness in their
building, in the order of their dwellings, and in their dress.  The
Frenchman invented the ruffle, the Englishman added the shirt.  The
Englishman wears a sensible coat buttoned to the chin, of rough but
solid and lasting texture.  If he is a lord, he dresses a little
worse than a commoner.  They have diffused the taste for plain
substantial hats, shoes, and coats through Europe.  They think him
the best dressed man, whose dress is so fit for his use that you
cannot notice or remember to describe it.
        They secure the essentials in their diet, in their arts, and
manufactures.  Every article of cutlery shows, in its shape, thought
and long experience of workmen.  They put the expense in the right
place, as, in their sea-steamers, in the solidity of the machinery
and the strength of the boat.  The admirable equipment of their
arctic ships carries London to the pole.  They build roads,
aqueducts, warm and ventilate houses.  And they have impressed their
directness and practical habit on modern civilization.
        In trade, the Englishman believes that nobody breaks who ought
not to break; and, that, if he do not make trade every thing, it will
make him nothing; and acts on this belief.  The spirit of system,
attention to details, and the subordination of details, or, the not
driving things too finely, (which is charged on the Germans,)
constitute that despatch of business, which makes the mercantile
power of England.
