
        Sir John Herschel, in completion of the work of his father, who
had made the catalogue of the stars of the northern hemisphere,
expatriated himself for years at the Cape of Good Hope, finished his
inventory of the southern heaven, came home, and redacted it in eight
years more; -- a work whose value does not begin until thirty years
have elapsed, and thenceforward a record to all ages of the highest
import.  The Admiralty sent out the Arctic expeditions year after
year, in search of Sir John Franklin, until, at last, they have
threaded their way through polar pack and Behring's Straits, and
solved the geographical problem.  Lord Elgin, at Athens, saw the
imminent ruin of the Greek remains, set up his scaffoldings, in spite
of epigrams, and, after five years' labor to collect them, got his
marbles on shipboard.  The ship struck a rock, and went to the
bottom.  He had them all fished up, by divers, at a vast expense, and
brought to London; not knowing that Haydon, Fuseli, and Canova, and
all good heads in all the world, were to be his applauders.  In the
same spirit, were the excavation and research by Sir Charles
Fellowes, for the Xanthian monument; and of Layard, for his Nineveh
sculptures.
        The nation sits in the immense city they have builded, a London
extended into every man's mind, though he live in Van Dieman's Land
or Capetown.  Faithful performance of what is undertaken to be
performed, they honor in themselves, and exact in others, as
certificate of equality with themselves.  The modern world is theirs.
They have made and make it day by day.  The commercial relations of
the world are so intimately drawn to London, that every dollar on
earth contributes to the strength of the English government.  And if
all the wealth in the planet should perish by war or deluge, they
know themselves competent to replace it.
        They have approved their Saxon blood, by their sea-going
qualities; their descent from Odin's smiths, by their hereditary
skill in working in iron; their British birth, by husbandry and
immense wheat harvests; and justified their occupancy of the centre
of habitable land, by their supreme ability and cosmopolitan spirit.
They have tilled, builded, forged, spun, and woven.  They have made
the island a thoroughfare; and London a shop, a law-court, a
record-office, and scientific bureau, inviting to strangers; a
sanctuary to refugees of every political and religious opinion; and
such a city, that almost every active man, in any nation, finds
himself, at one time or other, forced to visit it.
        In every path of practical activity, they have gone even with
the best.  There is no secret of war, in which they have not shown
mastery.  The steam-chamber of Watt, the locomotive of Stephenson,
the cotton-mule of Roberts, perform the labor of the world.  There is
no department of literature, of science, or of useful art, in which
they have not produced a first-rate book.  It is England, whose
opinion is waited for on the merit of a new invention, an improved
science.  And in the complications of the trade and politics of their
vast empire, they have been equal to every exigency, with counsel and
with conduct.  Is it their luck, or is it in the chambers of their
brain, -- it is their commercial advantage, that whatever light
appears in better method or happy invention, breaks out _in their
race_.  They are a family to which a destiny attaches, and the
Banshee has sworn that a male heir shall never be wanting.  They have
a wealth of men to fill important posts, and the vigilance of party
criticism insures the selection of a competent person.
        A proof of the energy of the British people, is the highly
artificial construction of the whole fabric.  The climate and
geography, I said, were factitious, as if the hands of man had
arranged the conditions.  The same character pervades the whole
kingdom.  Bacon said, "Rome was a state not subject to paradoxes;"
but England subsists by antagonisms and contradictions.  The
foundations of its greatness are the rolling waves; and, from first
to last, it is a museum of anomalies.  This foggy and rainy country
furnishes the world with astronomical observations.  Its short rivers
do not afford water-power, but the land shakes under the thunder of
the mills.  There is no gold mine of any importance, but there is
more gold in England than in all other countries.  It is too far
north for the culture of the vine, but the wines of all countries are
in its docks.  The French Comte de Lauraguais said, "no fruit ripens
in England but a baked apple"; but oranges and pine-apples are as
cheap in London as in the Mediterranean.  The Mark-Lane Express, or
the Custom House Returns bear out to the letter the vaunt of Pope,
        "Let India boast her palms, nor envy we
        The weeping amber, nor the spicy tree,
        While, by our oaks, those precious loads are borne,
        And realms commanded which those trees adorn."
 
        The native cattle are extinct, but the island is full of
artificial breeds.  The agriculturist Bakewell, created sheep and
cows and horses to order, and breeds in which every thing was omitted
but what is economical.  The cow is sacrificed to her bag, the ox to
his surloin.  Stall-feeding makes sperm-mills of the cattle, and
converts the stable to a chemical factory.  The rivers, lakes and
ponds, too much fished, or obstructed by factories, are artificially
filled with the eggs of salmon, turbot and herring.
        Chat Moss and the fens of Lincolnshire and Cambridgeshire are
unhealthy and too barren to pay rent.  By cylindrical tiles, and
guttapercha tubes, five millions of acres of bad land have been
drained and put on equality with the best, for rape-culture and
grass.  The climate too, which was already believed to have become
milder and drier by the enormous consumption of coal, is so far
reached by this new action, that fogs and storms are said to
disappear.  In due course, all England will be drained, and rise a
second time out of the waters.  The latest step was to call in the
aid of steam to agriculture.  Steam is almost an Englishman.  I do
not know but they will send him to Parliament, next, to make laws.
He weaves, forges, saws, pounds, fans, and now he must pump, grind,
dig, and plough for the farmer.  The markets created by the
manufacturing population have erected agriculture into a great
thriving and spending industry.  The value of the houses in Britain
is equal to the value of the soil.  Artificial aids of all kinds are
cheaper than the natural resources.  No man can afford to walk, when
the parliamentary-train carries him for a penny a mile.  Gas-burners
are cheaper than daylight in numberless floors in the cities.  All
the houses in London buy their water.  The English trade does not
exist for the exportation of native products, but on its
manufactures, or the making well every thing which is ill made
elsewhere.  They make ponchos for the Mexican, bandannas for the
Hindoo, ginseng for the Chinese, beads for the Indian, laces for the
Flemings, telescopes for astronomers, cannons for kings.
        The Board of Trade caused the best models of Greece and Italy
to be placed within the reach of every manufacturing population.
They caused to be translated from foreign languages and illustrated
by elaborate drawings, the most approved works of Munich, Berlin, and
Paris.  They have ransacked Italy to find new forms, to add a grace
to the products of their looms, their potteries, and their foundries.
(* 3)
