
        The nearer we look, the more artificial is their social system.
Their law is a network of fictions.  Their property, a scrip or
certificate of right to interest on money that no man ever saw.
Their social classes are made by statute.  Their ratios of power and
representation are historical and legal.  The last Reform-bill took
away political power from a mound, a ruin, and a stone-wall, whilst
Birmingham and Manchester, whose mills paid for the wars of Europe,
had no representative.  Purity in the elective Parliament is secured
by the purchase of seats.  (* 4) Foreign power is kept by armed
colonies; power at home, by a standing army of police.  The pauper
lives better than the free laborer; the thief better than the pauper;
and the transported felon better than the one under imprisonment.
The crimes are factitious, as smuggling, poaching, non-conformity,
heresy and treason.  Better, they say in England, kill a man than a
hare.  The sovereignty of the seas is maintained by the impressment
of seamen.  "The impressment of seamen," said Lord Eldon, "is the
life of our navy." Solvency is maintained by means of a national
debt, on the principle, "if you will not lend me the money, how can I
pay you?" For the administration of justice, Sir Samuel Romilly's
expedient for clearing the arrears of business in Chancery, was, the
Chancellor's staying away entirely from his court.  Their system of
education is factitious.  The Universities galvanize dead languages
into a semblance of life.  Their church is artificial.  The manners
and customs of society are artificial; -- made up men with made up
manners; -- and thus the whole is Birminghamized, and we have a
nation whose existence is a work of art; -- a cold, barren, almost
arctic isle, being made the most fruitful, luxurious and imperial
land in the whole earth.
        Man in England submits to be a product of political economy.
On a bleak moor, a mill is built, a banking-house is opened, and men
come in, as water in a sluice-way, and towns and cities rise.  Man is
made as a Birmingham button.  The rapid doubling of the population
dates from Watt's steam-engine.  A landlord, who owns a province,
says, "the tenantry are unprofitable; let me have sheep." He unroofs
the houses, and ships the population to America.  The nation is
accustomed to the instantaneous creation of wealth.  It is the maxim
of their economists, "that the greater part in value of the wealth
now existing in England, has been produced by human hands within the
last twelve months." Meantime, three or four days' rain will reduce
hundreds to starving in London.
        One secret of their power is their mutual good understanding.
Not only good minds are born among them, but all the people have good
minds.  Every nation has yielded some good wit, if, as has chanced to
many tribes, only one.  But the intellectual organization of the
English admits a communicableness of knowledge and ideas among them
all.  An electric touch by any of their national ideas, melts them
into one family, and brings the hoards of power which their
individuality is always hiving, into use and play for all.  Is it the
smallness of the country, or is it the pride and affection of race,
-- they have solidarity, or responsibleness, and trust in each other.
        Their minds, like wool, admit of a dye which is more lasting
than the cloth.  They embrace their cause with more tenacity than
their life.  Though not military, yet every common subject by the
poll is fit to make a soldier of.  These private reserved mute
family-men can adopt a public end with all their heat, and this
strength of affection makes the romance of their heroes.  The
difference of rank does not divide the national heart.  The Danish
poet Ohlenschlager complains, that who writes in Danish, writes to
two hundred readers.  In Germany, there is one speech for the
learned, and another for the masses, to that extent, that, it is
said, no sentiment or phrase from the works of any great German
writer is ever heard among the lower classes.  But in England, the
language of the noble is the language of the poor.  In Parliament, in
pulpits, in theatres, when the speakers rise to thought and passion,
the language becomes idiomatic; the people in the street best
understand the best words.  And their language seems drawn from the
Bible, the common law, and the works of Shakspeare, Bacon, Milton,
Pope, Young, Cowper, Burns, and Scott.  The island has produced two
or three of the greatest men that ever existed, but they were not
solitary in their own time.  Men quickly embodied what Newton found
out, in Greenwich observatories, and practical navigation.  The boys
know all that Hutton knew of strata, or Dalton of atoms, or Harvey of
blood-vessels; and these studies, once dangerous, are in fashion.  So
what is invented or known in agriculture, or in trade, or in war, or
in art, or in literature, and antiquities.  A great ability, not
amassed on a few giants, but poured into the general mind, so that
each of them could at a pinch stand in the shoes of the other; and
they are more bound in character, than differenced in ability or in
rank.  The laborer is a possible lord.  The lord is a possible
basket-maker.  Every man carries the English system in his brain,
knows what is confided to him, and does therein the best he can.  The
chancellor carries England on his mace, the midshipman at the point
of his dirk, the smith on his hammer, the cook in the bowl of his
spoon; the postilion cracks his whip for England, and the sailor
times his oars to "God save the King!" The very felons have their
pride in each other's English stanchness.  In politics and in war,
they hold together as by hooks of steel.  The charm in Nelson's
history, is, the unselfish greatness; the assurance of being
supported to the uttermost by those whom he supports to the
uttermost.  Whilst they are some ages ahead of the rest of the world
in the art of living; whilst in some directions they do not represent
the modern spirit, but constitute it,--this vanguard of civility and
power they coldly hold, marching in phalanx, lockstep, foot after
foot, file after file of heroes, ten thousand deep.
        (* 1) Antony Wood.
        (* 2) Man's Soule, p. 29.
        (* 3) See Memorial of H. Greenough, p. 66, New York, 1853.
        (* 4) Sir S. Romilly, purest of English patriots, decided that
the only independent mode of entering Parliament was to buy a seat,
and he bought Horsham.
