
 
 
 
        Chapter VI _Manners_
        I find the Englishman to be him of all men who stands firmest
in his shoes.  They have in themselves what they value in their
horses, mettle and bottom.  On the day of my arrival at Liverpool, a
gentleman, in describing to me the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland,
happened to say, "Lord Clarendon has pluck like a cock, and will
fight till he dies;" and, what I heard first I heard last, and the
one thing the English value, is pluck.  The cabmen have it; the
merchants have it; the bishops have it; the women have it; the
journals have it; the Times newspaper, they say, is the pluckiest
thing in England, and Sydney Smith had made it a proverb, that little
Lord John Russell, the minister, would take the command of the
Channel fleet to-morrow.
        They require you to dare to be of your own opinion, and they
hate the practical cowards who cannot in affairs answer directly yes
or no.  They dare to displease, nay, they will let you break all the
commandments, if you do it natively, and with spirit.  You must be
somebody; then you may do this or that, as you will.
        Machinery has been applied to all work, and carried to such
perfection, that little is left for the men but to mind the engines
and feed the furnaces.  But the machines require punctual service,
and, as they never tire, they prove too much for their tenders.
Mines, forges, mills, breweries, railroads, steampump, steamplough,
drill of regiments, drill of police, rule of court, and shop-rule,
have operated to give a mechanical regularity to all the habit and
action of men.  A terrible machine has possessed itself of the
ground, the air, the men and women, and hardly even thought is free.
        The mechanical might and organization requires in the people
constitution and answering spirits: and he who goes among them must
have some weight of metal.  At last, you take your hint from the fury
of life you find, and say, one thing is plain, this is no country for
fainthearted people: don't creep about diffidently; make up your
mind; take your own course, and you shall find respect and
furtherance.
        It requires, men say, a good constitution to travel in Spain.
I say as much of England, for other cause, simply on account of the
vigor and brawn of the people.  Nothing but the most serious
business, could give one any counterweight to these Baresarks, though
they were only to order eggs and muffins for their breakfast.  The
Englishman speaks with all his body.  His elocution is stomachic, --
as the American's is labial.  The Englishman is very petulant and
precise about his accommodation at inns, and on the roads; a quiddle
about his toast and his chop, and every species of convenience, and
loud and pungent in his expressions of impatience at any neglect.
His vivacity betrays itself, at all points, in his manners, in his
respiration, and the inarticulate noises he makes in clearing the
throat; -- all significant of burly strength.  He has stamina; he can
take the initiative in emergencies.  He has that _aplomb_, which
results from a good adjustment of the moral and physical nature, and
the obedience of all the powers to the will; as if the axes of his
eyes were united to his backbone, and only moved with the trunk.
        This vigor appears in the incuriosity, and stony neglect, each
of every other.  Each man walks, eats, drinks, shaves, dresses,
gesticulates, and, in every manner, acts, and suffers without
reference to the bystanders, in his own fashion, only careful not to
interfere with them, or annoy them; not that he is trained to neglect
the eyes of his neighbors, -- he is really occupied with his own
affair, and does not think of them.  Every man in this polished
country consults only his convenience, as much as a solitary pioneer
in Wisconsin.  I know not where any personal eccentricity is so
freely allowed, and no man gives himself any concern with it.  An
Englishman walks in a pouring rain, swinging his closed umbrella like
a walking-stick; wears a wig, or a shawl, or a saddle, or stands on
his head, and no remark is made.  And as he has been doing this for
several generations, it is now in the blood.
        In short, every one of these islanders is an island himself,
safe, tranquil, incommunicable.  In a company of strangers, you would
think him deaf; his eyes never wander from his table and newspaper.
He is never betrayed into any curiosity or unbecoming emotion.  They
have all been trained in one severe school of manners, and never put
off the harness.  He does not give his hand.  He does not let you
meet his eye.  It is almost an affront to look a man in the face,
without being introduced.  In mixed or in select companies they do
not introduce persons; so that a presentation is a circumstance as
valid as a contract.  Introductions are sacraments.  He withholds his
name.  At the hotel, he is hardly willing to whisper it to the clerk
at the book-office.  If he give you his private address on a card, it
is like an avowal of friendship; and his bearing, on being
introduced, is cold, even though he is seeking your acquaintance, and
is studying how he shall serve you.
