
        The conversation turned on books.  Lucretius he esteems a far
higher poet than Virgil: not in his system, which is nothing, but in
his power of illustration.  Faith is necessary to explain any thing,
and to reconcile the foreknowledge of God with human evil.  Of
Cousin, (whose lectures we had all been reading in Boston,) he knew
only the name.
        I inquired if he had read Carlyle's critical articles and
translations.  He said, he thought him sometimes insane.  He
proceeded to abuse Goethe's Wilhelm Meister heartily.  It was full of
all manner of fornication.  It was like the crossing of flies in the
air.  He had never gone farther than the first part; so disgusted was
he that he threw the book across the room.  I deprecated this wrath,
and said what I could for the better parts of the book; and he
courteously promised to look at it again.  Carlyle, he said, wrote
most obscurely.  He was clever and deep, but he defied the sympathies
of every body.  Even Mr. Coleridge wrote more clearly, though he had
always wished Coleridge would write more to be understood.  He led me
out into his garden, and showed me the gravel walk in which thousands
of his lines were composed.  His eyes are much inflamed.  This is no
loss, except for reading, because he never writes prose, and of
poetry he carries even hundreds of lines in his head before writing
them.  He had just returned from a visit to Staffa, and within three
days had made three sonnets on Fingal's Cave, and was composing a
fourth, when he was called in to see me.  He said, "If you are
interested in my verses, perhaps you will like to hear these lines."
I gladly assented; and he recollected himself for a few moments, and
then stood forth and repeated, one after the other, the three entire
sonnets with great animation.  I fancied the second and third more
beautiful than his poems are wont to be.  The third is addressed to
the flowers, which, he said, especially the oxeye daisy, are very
abundant on the top of the rock.  The second alludes to the name of
the cave, which is "Cave of Music;" the first to the circumstance of
its being visited by the promiscuous company of the steamboat.
        This recitation was so unlooked for and surprising, -- he, the
old Wordsworth, standing apart, and reciting to me in a garden-walk,
like a schoolboy declaiming, -- that I at first was near to laugh;
but recollecting myself, that I had come thus far to see a poet, and
he was chanting poems to me, I saw that he was right and I was wrong,
and gladly gave myself up to hear.  I told him how much the few
printed extracts had quickened the desire to possess his unpublished
poems.  He replied, he never was in haste to publish; partly, because
he corrected a good deal, and every alteration is ungraciously
received after printing; but what he had written would be printed,
whether he lived or died.  I said, "Tintern Abbey" appeared to be the
favorite poem with the public, but more contemplative readers
preferred the first books of the "Excursion," and the Sonnets.  He
said, "Yes, they are better." He preferred such of his poems as
touched the affections, to any others; for whatever is didactic, --
what theories of society, and so on, -- might perish quickly; but
whatever combined a truth with an affection was {ktema es aei}, good
to-day and good forever.  He cited the sonnet "On the feelings of a
high-minded Spaniard," which he preferred to any other, (I so
understood him,) and the "Two Voices;" and quoted, with evident
pleasure, the verses addressed "To the Skylark." In this connection,
he said of the Newtonian theory, that it might yet be superseded and
forgotten; and Dalton's atomic theory.
        When I prepared to depart, he said he wished to show me what a
common person in England could do, and he led me into the enclosure
of his clerk, a young man, to whom he had given this slip of ground,
which was laid out, or its natural capabilities shown, with much
taste.  He then said he would show me a better way towards the inn;
and he walked a good part of a mile, talking, and ever and anon
stopping short to impress the word or the verse, and finally parted
from me with great kindness, and returned across the fields.
        Wordsworth honored himself by his simple adherence to truth,
and was very willing not to shine; but he surprised by the hard
limits of his thought.  To judge from a single conversation, he made
the impression of a narrow and very English mind; of one who paid for
his rare elevation by general tameness and conformity.  Off his own
beat, his opinions were of no value.  It is not very rare to find
persons loving sympathy and ease, who expiate their departure from
the common, in one direction, by their conformity in every other.
 
 
 
        Chapter II _Voyage to England_
        The occasion of my second visit to England was an invitation
from some Mechanics' Institutes in Lancashire and Yorkshire, which
separately are organized much in the same way as our New England
Lyceums, but, in 1847, had been linked into a "Union," which embraced
twenty or thirty towns and cities, and presently extended into the
middle counties, and northward into Scotland.  I was invited, on
liberal terms, to read a series of lectures in them all.  The request
was urged with every kind suggestion, and every assurance of aid and
comfort, by friendliest parties in Manchester, who, in the sequel,
amply redeemed their word.  The remuneration was equivalent to the
fees at that time paid in this country for the like services.  At all
events, it was sufficient to cover any travelling expenses, and the
proposal offered an excellent opportunity of seeing the interior of
England and Scotland, by means of a home, and a committee of
intelligent friends, awaiting me in every town.
        I did not go very willingly.  I am not a good traveller, nor
have I found that long journeys yield a fair share of reasonable
hours.  But the invitation was repeated and pressed at a moment of
more leisure, and when I was a little spent by some unusual studies.
I wanted a change and a tonic, and England was proposed to me.
Besides, there were, at least, the dread attraction and salutary
influences of the sea.  So I took my berth in the packet-ship
Washington Irving, and sailed from Boston on Tuesday, 5th October,
1847.
