
        The teutonic tribes have a national singleness of heart, which
contrasts wit races.  The German name has a proverbial significance
of sincerity and honest meaning. The arts bear testimony to it.  The
faces of clergy and laity in old sculptures and illuminated missals
are charged with earnest belief.  Add to this hereditary rectitude,
the punctuality and precise dealing which commerce creates, and you
have the English truth and credit.  The government strictly performs
its engagements.  The subjects do not understand trifling on its
part.  When any breach of promise occurred, in the old days of
prerogative, it was resented by the people as an intolerable
grievance.  And, in modern times, any slipperiness in the government
in political faith, or any repudiation or crookedness in matters of
finance, would bring the whole nation to a committee of inquiry and
reform.  Private men keep their promises, never so trivial.  Down
goes the flying word on the tablets, and is indelible as Domesday
Book.
        Their practical power rests on their national sincerity.
Veracity derives from instinct, and marks superiority in
organization.  Nature has endowed some animals with cunning, as a
compensation for strength withheld; but it has provoked the malice of
all others, as if avengers of public wrong.  In the nobler kinds,
where strength could be afforded, her races are loyal to truth, as
truth is the foundation of the social state.  Beasts that make no
truce with man, do not break faith with each other.  'Tis said, that
the wolf, who makes a _cache_ of his prey, and brings his fellows
with him to the spot, if, on digging, it is not found, is instantly
and unresistingly torn in pieces.  English veracity seems to result
on a sounder animal structure, as if they could afford it.  They are
blunt in saying what they think, sparing of promises, and they
require plaindealing of others.  We will not have to do with a man in
a mask.  Let us know the truth.  Draw a straight line, hit whom and
where it will.  Alfred, whom the affection of the nation makes the
type of their race, is called by his friend Asser, the
_truth-speaker_; _Alueredus veridicus_.  Geoffrey of Monmouth says of
King Aurelius, uncle of Arthur, that "above all things he hated a
lie." The Northman Guttorm said to King Olaf, "it is royal work to
fulfil royal words." The mottoes of their families are monitory
proverbs, as, _Fare fac_, -- Say, do, -- of the Fairfaxes; _Say and
seal_, of the house of Fiennes; _Vero nil verius_, of the DeVeres.
To be king of their word, is their pride.  When they unmask cant,
they say, "the English of this is," &c.; and to give the lie is the
extreme insult.  The phrase of the lowest of the people is
"honor-bright," and their vulgar praise, "his word is as good as his
bond." They hate shuffling and equivocation, and the cause is damaged
in the public opinion, on which any paltering can be fixed.  Even
Lord Chesterfield, with his French breeding, when he came to define a
gentleman, declared that truth made his distinction: and nothing ever
spoken by him would find so hearty a suffrage from his nation.  The
Duke of Wellington, who had the best right to say so, advises the
French General Kellermann, that he may rely on the parole of an
English officer.  The English, of all classes, value themselves on
this trait, as distinguishing them from the French, who, in the
popular belief, are more polite than true.  An Englishman
understates, avoids the superlative, checks himself in compliments,
alleging, that in the French language, one cannot speak without
lying.
        They love reality in wealth, power, hospitality, and do not
easily learn to make a show, and take the world as it goes.  They are
not fond of ornaments, and if they wear them, they must be gems.
They read gladly in old Fuller, that a lady, in the reign of
Elizabeth, "would have as patiently digested a lie, as the wearing of
false stones or pendants of counterfeit pearl." They have the
earth-hunger, or preference for property in land, which is said to
mark the Teutonic nations.  They build of stone: public and private
buildings are massive and durable: In comparing their ships' houses,
and public offices with the American, it is commonly said, that they
spend a pound, where we spend a dollar.  Plain rich clothes, plain
rich equipage, plain rich finish throughout their house and
belongings, mark the English truth.
        They confide in each other, -- English believes in English The
French feel the superiority of this probity.  The Englishman is not
springing a trap for his admiration, but is honestly minding his
business.  The Frenchman is vain.  Madame de Stael says, that the
English irritated Napoleon, mainly, because they have found out how
to unite success with honesty.  She was not aware how wide an
application her foreign readers would give to the remark.  Wellington
discovered the ruin of Bonaparte's affairs, by his own probity.  He
augured ill of the empire, as soon as he saw that it was mendacious,
and lived by war.  If war do not bring in its sequel new trade,
better agriculture and manufactures, but only games, fireworks, and
spectacles, -- no prosperity could support it; much less, a nation
decimated for conscripts, and out of pocket, like France.  So he
drudged for years on his military works at Lisbon, and from this base
at last extended his gigantic lines to Waterloo, believing in his
countrymen and their syllogisms above all the rhodomontade of Europe.
        At a St. George's festival, in Montreal, where I happened to be
a guest, since my return home, I observed that the chairman
complimented his compatriots, by saying, "they confided that wherever
they met an Englishman, they found a man who would speak the truth."
And one cannot think this festival fruitless, if, all over the world,
on the 23d of April, wherever two or three English are found, they
meet to encourage each other in the nationality of veracity.
        In the power of saying rude truth, sometimes in the lion's
mouth, no men surpass them.  On the king's birthday, when each bishop
was expected to offer the king a purse of gold, Latimer gave Henry
VIII.  a copy of the Vulgate, with a mark at the passage,
"Whoremongers and adulterers God will judge;" and they so honor
stoutness in each other, that the king passed it over.  They are
tenacious of their belief, and cannot easily change their opinions to
suit the hour.  They are like ships with too much head on to come
quickly about, nor will prosperity or even adversity be allowed to
shake their habitual view of conduct.  Whilst I was in London, M.
Guizot arrived there on his escape from Paris, in February, 1848.
Many private friends called on him.  His name was immediately
proposed as an honorary member of the Athenaeum.  M.  Guizot was
blackballed.  Certainly, they knew the distinction of his name.  But
the Englishman is not fickle.  He had really made up his mind, now
for years as he read his newspaper, to hate and despise M.  Guizot;
and the altered position of the man as an illustrious exile, and a
guest in the country, make no difference to him, as they would
instantly, to an American.
        They require the same adherence, thorough conviction and
reality in public men.  It is the want of character which makes the
low reputation of the Irish members.  "See them," they said, "one
hundred and twenty-seven all voting like sheep, never proposing any
thing, and all but four voting the income tax," -- which was an
ill-judged concession of the Government, relieving Irish property
from the burdens charged on English.
        They have a horror of adventurers in or out of Parliament.  The
ruling passion of Englishmen, in these days, is, a terror of humbug.
In the same proportion, they value honesty, stoutness, and adherence
to your own.  They like a man committed to his objects.  They hate
the French, as frivolous; they hate the Irish, as aimless; they hate
the Germans, as professors.  In February, 1848, they said, Look, the
French king and his party fell for want of a shot; they had not
conscience to shoot, so entirely was the pith and heart of monarchy
eaten out.
