
        But these classes are the right English stock, and may fairly
show the national qualities, before yet art and education have dealt
with them.  They are good lovers, good haters, slow but obstinate
admirers, and, in all things, very much steeped in their temperament,
like men hardly awaked from deep sleep, which they enjoy.  Their
habits and instincts cleave to nature.  They are of the earth,
earthy; and of the sea, as the sea-kinds, attached to it for what it
yields them, and not from any sentiment.  They are full of coarse
strength, rude exercise, butcher's meat, and sound sleep; and suspect
any poetic insinuation or any hint for the conduct of life which
reflects on this animal existence, as if somebody were fumbling at
the umbilical cord and might stop their supplies.  They doubt a man's
sound judgment, if he does not eat with appetite, and shake their
heads if he is particularly chaste.  Take them as they come, you
shall find in the common people a surly indifference, sometimes
gruffness and ill temper; and, in minds of more power, magazines of
inexhaustible war, challenging
        "The ruggedest hour that time and spite dare bring
        To frown upon the enraged Northumberland."
 
        They are headstrong believers and defenders of their opinion,
and not less resolute in maintaining their whim and perversity.
Hezekiah Woodward wrote a book against the Lord's Prayer.  And one
can believe that Burton the Anatomist of Melancholy, having predicted
from the stars the hour of his death, slipped the knot himself round
his own neck, not to falsify his horoscope.
        Their looks bespeak an invincible stoutness: they have extreme
difficulty to run away, and will die game.  Wellington said of the
young coxcombs of the Life-Guards delicately brought up, "but the
puppies fight well;" and Nelson said of his sailors, "they really
mind shot no more than peas." Of absolute stoutness no nation has
more or better examples.  They are good at storming redoubts, at
boarding frigates, at dying in the last ditch, or any desperate
service which has daylight and honor in it; but not, I think, at
enduring the rack, or any passive obedience, like jumping off a
castle-roof at the word of a czar.  Being both vascular and highly
organized, so as to be very sensible of pain; and intellectual, so as
to see reason and glory in a matter.
        Of that constitutional force, which yields the supplies of the
day, they have the more than enough, the excess which creates courage
on fortitude, genius in poetry, invention in mechanics, enterprise in
trade, magnificence in wealth, splendor in ceremonies, petulance and
projects in youth.  The young men have a rude health which runs into
peccant humors.  They drink brandy like water, cannot expend their
quantities of waste strength on riding, hunting, swimming, and
fencing, and run into absurd frolics with the gravity of the
Eumenides.  They stoutly carry into every nook and corner of the
earth their turbulent sense; leaving no lie uncontradicted; no
pretension unexamined.  They chew hasheesh; cut themselves with
poisoned creases; swing their hammock in the boughs of the Bohon
Upas; taste every poison; buy every secret; at Naples, they put St.
Januarius's blood in an alembic; they saw a hole into the head of the
"winking Virgin," to know why she winks; measure with an English
footrule every cell of the Inquisition, every Turkish caaba, every
Holy of holies; translate and send to Bentley the arcanum bribed and
bullied away from shuddering Bramins; and measure their own strength
by the terror they cause.  These travellers are of every class, the
best and the worst; and it may easily happen that those of rudest
behavior are taken notice of and remembered.  The Saxon melancholy in
the vulgar rich and poor appears as gushes of ill-humor, which every
check exasperates into sarcasm and vituperation.  There are
multitudes of rude young English who have the self-sufficiency and
bluntness of their nation, and who, with their disdain of the rest of
mankind, and with this indigestion and choler, have made the English
traveller a proverb for uncomfortable and offensive manners.  It was
no bad description of the Briton generically, what was said two
hundred years ago, of one particular Oxford scholar: "He was a very
bold man, uttered any thing that came into his mind, not only among
his companions, but in public coffee-houses, and would often speak
his mind of particular persons then accidentally present, without
examining the company he was in; for which he was often reprimanded,
and several times threatened to be kicked and beaten."
        The common Englishman is prone to forget a cardinal article in
the bill of social rights, that every man has a right to his own
ears.  No man can claim to usurp more than a few cubic feet of the
audibilities of a public room, or to put upon the company with the
loud statement of his crotchets or personalities.
        But it is in the deep traits of race that the fortunes of
nations are written, and however derived, whether a happier tribe or
mixture of tribes, the air, or what circumstance, that mixed for them
the golden mean of temperament, -- here exists the best stock in the
world, broad-fronted, broad-bottomed, best for depth, range, and
equability, men of aplomb and reserves, great range and many moods,
strong instincts, yet apt for culture; war-class as well as clerks;
earls and tradesmen; wise minority, as well as foolish majority;
abysmal temperament, hiding wells of wrath, and glooms on which no
sunshine settles; alternated with a common sense and humanity which
hold them fast to every piece of cheerful duty; making this
temperament a sea to which all storms are superficial; a race to
which their fortunes flow, as if they alone had the elastic
organization at once fine and robust enough for dominion; as if the
burly inexpressive, now mute and contumacious, now fierce and
sharp-tongued dragon, which once made the island light with his fiery
breath, had bequeathed his ferocity to his conqueror.  They hide
virtues under vices, or the semblance of them.  It is the misshapen
hairy Scandinavian troll again, who lifts the cart out of the mire,
or "threshes the corn that ten day-laborers could not end," but it is
done in the dark, and with muttered maledictions.  He is a churl with
a soft place in his heart, whose speech is a brash of bitter waters,
but who loves to help you at a pinch.  He says no, and serves you,
and your thanks disgust him.  Here was lately a cross-grained miser,
odd and ugly, resembling in countenance the portrait of Punch, with
the laugh left out; rich by his own industry; sulking in a lonely
house; who never gave a dinner to any man, and disdained all
courtesies; yet as true a worshipper of beauty in form and color as
ever existed, and profusely pouring over the cold mind of his
countrymen creations of grace and truth, removing the reproach of
sterility from English art, catching from their savage climate every
fine hint, and importing into their galleries every tint and trait of
sunnier cities and skies; making an era in painting; and, when he saw
that the splendor of one of his pictures in the Exhibition dimmed his
rival's that hung next it, secretly took a brush and blackened his
own.
        They do not wear their heart in their sleeve for daws to peck
at.  They have that phlegm or staidness, which it is a compliment to
disturb.  "Great men," said Aristotle, "are always of a nature
originally melancholy." 'Tis the habit of a mind which attaches to
abstractions with a passion which gives vast results.  They dare to
displease, they do not speak to expectation.  They like the sayers of
No, better than the sayers of Yes.  Each of them has an opinion which
he feels it becomes him to express all the more that it differs from
yours.  They are meditating opposition.  This gravity is inseparable
from minds of great resources.
        There is an English hero superior to the French, the German,
the Italian, or the Greek.  When he is brought to the strife with
fate, he sacrifices a richer material possession, and on more purely
metaphysical grounds.  He is there with his own consent, face to face
with fortune, which he defies.  On deliberate choice, and from
grounds of character, he has elected his part to live and die for,
and dies with grandeur.  This race has added new elements to
humanity, and has a deeper root in the world.
