
        Great estates are not sinecures, if they are to be kept great.
A creative economy is the fuel of magnificence.  In the same line of
Warwick, the successor next but one to Beauchamp, was the stout earl
of Henry VI.  and Edward IV.  Few esteemed themselves in the mode,
whose heads were not adorned with the black ragged staff, his badge.
At his house in London, six oxen were daily eaten at a breakfast; and
every tavern was full of his meat; and who had any acquaintance in
his family, should have as much boiled and roast as he could carry on
a long dagger.
        The new age brings new qualities into request, the virtues of
pirates gave way to those of planters, merchants, senators, and
scholars.  Comity, social talent, and fine manners, no doubt, have
had their part also.  I have met somewhere with a historiette, which,
whether more or less true in its particulars, carries a general
truth.  "How came the Duke of Bedford by his great landed estates?
His ancestor having travelled on the continent, a lively, pleasant
man, became the companion of a foreign prince wrecked on the
Dorsetshire coast, where Mr. Russell lived.  The prince recommended
him to Henry VIII., who, liking his company, gave him a large share
of the plundered church lands."
        The pretence is that the noble is of unbroken descent from the
Norman, and has never worked for eight hundred years.  But the fact
is otherwise.  Where is Bohun? where is De Vere?  The lawyer, the
farmer, the silkmercer lies _perdu_ under the coronet, and winks to
the antiquary to say nothing; especially skilful lawyers, nobody's
sons, who did some piece of work at a nice moment for government, and
were rewarded with ermine.
        The national tastes of the English do not lead them to the life
of the courtier, but to secure the comfort and independence of their
homes.  The aristocracy are marked by their predilection for
country-life.  They are called the county-families.  They have often
no residence in London, and only go thither a short time, during the
season, to see the opera; but they concentrate the love and labor of
many generations on the building, planting and decoration of their
homesteads.  Some of them are too old and too proud to wear titles,
or, as Sheridan said of Coke, "disdain to hide their head in a
coronet;" and some curious examples are cited to show the stability
of English families.  Their proverb is, that, fifty miles from
London, a family will last a hundred years; at a hundred miles, two
hundred years; and so on; but I doubt that steam, the enemy of time,
as well as of space, will disturb these ancient rules.  Sir Henry
Wotton says of the first Duke of Buckingham, "He was born at Brookeby
in Leicestershire, where his ancestors had chiefly continued about
the space of four hundred years, rather without obscurity, than with
any great lustre." (* 2) Wraxall says, that, in 1781, Lord Surrey,
afterwards Duke of Norfolk, told him, that when the year 1783 should
arrive, he meant to give a grand festival to all the descendants of
the body of Jockey of Norfolk, to mark the day when the dukedom
should have remained three hundred years in their house, since its
creation by Richard III.  Pepys tells us, in writing of an Earl
Oxford, in 1666, that the honor had now remained in that name and
blood six hundred years.
        (* 2) Reliquiae Wottonianae, p. 208.
        This long descent of families and this cleaving through ages to
the same spot of ground captivates the imagination.  It has too a
connection with the names of the towns and districts of the country.
        The names are excellent, -- an atmosphere of legendary melody
spread over the land.  Older than all epics and histories, which
clothe a nation, this undershirt sits close to the body.  What
history too, and what stores of primitive and savage observation it
infolds!  Cambridge is the bridge of the Cam; Sheffield the field of
the river Sheaf; Leicester the _castra_ or camp of the Lear or Leir
(now Soar); Rochdale, of the Roch; Exeter or Excester, the _castra_
of the Ex; Exmouth, Dartmouth, Sidmouth, Teignmouth, the mouths of
the Ex, Dart, Sid, and Teign rivers.  Waltham is strong town;
Radcliffe is red cliff; and so on: -- a sincerity and use in naming
very striking to an American, whose country is whitewashed all over
by unmeaning names, the cast-off clothes of the country from which
its emigrants came; or, named at a pinch from a psalm-tune.  But the
English are those "barbarians" of Jamblichus, who "are stable in
their manners, and firmly continue to employ the same words, which
also are dear to the gods."
        'Tis an old sneer, that the Irish peerage drew their names from
playbooks.  The English lords do not call their lands after their own
names, but call themselves after their lands; as if the man
represented the country that bred him; and they rightly wear the
token of the glebe that gave them birth; suggesting that the tie is
not cut, but that there in London, -- the crags of Argyle, the kail
of Cornwall, the downs of Devon, the iron of Wales, the clays of
Stafford, are neither forgetting nor forgotten, but know the man who
was born by them, and who, like the long line of his fathers, has
carried that crag, that shore, dale, fen, or woodland, in his blood
and manners.  It has, too, the advantage of suggesting
responsibleness.  A susceptible man could not wear a name which
represented in a strict sense a city or a county of England, without
hearing in it a challenge to duty and honor.
