
        The predilection of the patricians for residence in the
country, combined with the degree of liberty possessed by the
peasant, makes the safety of the English hall.  Mirabeau wrote
prophetically from England, in 1784, "If revolution break out in
France, I tremble for the aristocracy: their chateaux will be reduced
to ashes, and their blood spilt in torrents.  The English tenant
would defend his lord to the last extremity." The English go to their
estates for grandeur.  The French live at court, and exile themselves
to their estates for economy.  As they do not mean to live with their
tenants, they do not conciliate them, but wring from them the last
sous.  Evelyn writes from Blois, in 1644, "The wolves are here in
such numbers, that they often come and take children out of the
streets: yet will not the Duke, who is sovereign here, permit them to
be destroyed."
        In evidence of the wealth amassed by ancient families, the
traveller is shown the palaces in Piccadilly, Burlington House,
Devonshire House, Lansdowne House in Berkshire Square, and, lower
down in the city, a few noble houses which still withstand in all
their amplitude the encroachment of streets.  The Duke of Bedford
includes or included a mile square in the heart of London, where the
British Museum, once Montague House, now stands, and the land
occupied by Woburn Square, Bedford Square, Russell Square.  The
Marquis of Westminster built within a few years the series of squares
called Belgravia.  Stafford House is the noblest palace in London.
Northumberland House holds its place by Charing Cross.  Chesterfield
House remains in Audley Street.  Sion House and Holland House are in
the suburbs.  But most of the historical houses are masked or lost in
the modern uses to which trade or charity has converted them.  A
multitude of town palaces contain inestimable galleries of art.
        In the country, the size of private estates is more impressive.
From Barnard Castle I rode on the highway twenty-three miles from
High Force, a fall of the Tees, towards Darlington, past Raby Castle,
through the estate of the Duke of Cleveland.  The Marquis of
Breadalbane rides out of his house a hundred miles in a straight line
to the sea, on his own property.  The Duke of Sutherland owns the
county of Sutherland, stretching across Scotland from sea to sea.
The Duke of Devonshire, besides his other estates, owns 96,000 acres
in the County of Derby.  The Duke of Richmond has 40,000 acres at
Goodwood, and 300,000 at Gordon Castle.  The Duke of Norfolk's park
in Sussex is fifteen miles in circuit.  An agriculturist bought
lately the island of Lewes, in Hebrides, containing 500,000 acres.
The possessions of the Earl of Lonsdale gave him eight seats in
Parliament.  This is the Heptarchy again: and before the Reform of
1832, one hundred and fifty-four persons sent three hundred and seven
members to Parliament.  The borough-mongers governed England.
        These large domains are growing larger.  The great estates are
absorbing the small freeholds.  In 1786, the soil of England was
owned by 250,000 corporations and proprietors; and, in 1822, by
32,000.  These broad estates find room in this narrow island.  All
over England, scattered at short intervals among ship-yards, mills,
mines, and forges, are the paradises of the nobles, where the
livelong repose and refinement are heightened by the contrast with
the roar of industry and necessity, out of which you have stepped
aside.
        I was surprised to observe the very small attendance usually in
the House of Lords.  Out of 573 peers, on ordinary days, only twenty
or thirty.  Where are they?  I asked.  "At home on their estates,
devoured by _ennui_, or in the Alps, or up the Rhine, in the Harz
Mountains, or in Egypt, or in India, on the Ghauts." But, with such
interests at stake, how can these men afford to neglect them?  "O,"
replied my friend, "why should they work for themselves, when every
man in England works for them, and will suffer before they come to
harm?" The hardest radical instantly uncovers, and changes his tone
to a lord.  It was remarked, on the 10th April, 1848, (the day of the
Chartist demonstration,) that the upper classes were, for the first
time, actively interesting themselves in their own defence, and men
of rank were sworn special constables, with the rest.  "Besides, why
need they sit out the debate?  Has not the Duke of Wellington, at
this moment, their proxies, -- the proxies of fifty peers in his
pocket, to vote for them, if there be an emergency?"
        It is however true, that the existence of the House of Peers as
a branch of the government entitles them to fill half the Cabinet;
and their weight of property and station give them a virtual
nomination of the other half; whilst they have their share in the
subordinate offices, as a school of training.  This monopoly of
political power has given them their intellectual and social eminence
in Europe.  A few law lords and a few political lords take the brunt
of public business.  In the army, the nobility fill a large part of
the high commissions, and give to these a tone of expense and
splendor, and also of exclusiveness.  They have borne their full
share of duty and danger in this service; and there are few noble
families which have not paid in some of their members, the debt of
life or limb, in the sacrifices of the Russian war.  For the rest,
the nobility have the lead in matters of state, and of expense; in
questions of taste, in social usages, in convivial and domestic
hospitalities.  In general, all that is required of them is to sit
securely, to preside at public meetings, to countenance charities,
and to give the example of that decorum so dear to the British heart.
 
        If one asks, in the critical spirit of the day, what service
this class have rendered? -- uses appear, or they would have perished
long ago.  Some of these are easily enumerated, others more subtle
make a part of unconscious history.  Their institution is one step in
the progress of society.  For a race yields a nobility in some form,
however we name the lords, as surely as it yields women.
        The English nobles are high-spirited, active, educated men,
born to wealth and power, who have run through every country, and
kept in every country the best company, have seen every secret of art
and nature, and, when men of any ability or ambition, have been
consulted in the conduct of every important action.  You cannot wield
great agencies without lending yourself to them, and, when it happens
that the spirit of the earl meets his rank and duties, we have the
best examples of behavior.  Power of any kind readily appears in the
manners; and beneficent power, _le talent de bien faire_, gives a
majesty which cannot be concealed or resisted.
