
        As many sons, almost so many benefactors.  It is usual for a
nobleman, or indeed for almost every wealthy student, on quitting
college, to leave behind him some article of plate; and gifts of all
values, from a hall, or a fellowship, or a library, down to a picture
or a spoon, are continually accruing, in the course of a century.  My
friend Doctor J., gave me the following anecdote.  In Sir Thomas
Lawrence's collection at London, were the cartoons of Raphael and
Michel Angelo.  This inestimable prize was offered to Oxford
University for seven thousand pounds.  The offer was accepted, and
the committee charged with the affair had collected three thousand
pounds, when among other friends, they called on Lord Eldon.  Instead
of a hundred pounds, he surprised them by putting down his name for
three thousand pounds.  They told him, they should now very easily
raise the remainder.  "No," he said, "your men have probably already
contributed all they can spare; I can as well give the rest": and he
withdrew his cheque for three thousand, and wrote four thousand
pounds.  I saw the whole collection in April, 1848.
        In the Bodleian Library, Dr. Bandinel showed me the manuscript
Plato, of the date of A. D. 896, brought by Dr. Clarke from Egypt; a
manuscript Virgil, of the same century; the first Bible printed at
Mentz, (I believe in 1450); and a duplicate of the same, which had
been deficient in about twenty leaves at the end.  But, one day,
being in Venice, he bought a room full of books and manuscripts, --
every scrap and fragment, -- for four thousand louis d'ors, and had
the doors locked and sealed by the consul.  On proceeding,
afterwards, to examine his purchase, he found the twenty deficient
pages of his Mentz Bible, in perfect order; brought them to Oxford,
with the rest of his purchase, and placed them in the volume; but has
too much awe for the Providence that appears in bibliography also, to
suffer the reunited parts to be re-bound.  The oldest building here
is two hundred years younger than the frail manuscript brought by Dr.
Clarke from Egypt.  No candle or fire is ever lighted in the
Bodleian.  Its catalogue is the standard catalogue on the desk of
every library in Oxford.  In each several college, they underscore in
red ink on this catalogue the titles of books contained in the
library of that college, -- the theory being that the Bodleian has
all books.  This rich library spent during the last year (1847) for
the purchase of books 1668 pounds.
        The logical English train a scholar as they train an engineer.
Oxford is a Greek factory, as Wilton mills weave carpet, and
Sheffield grinds steel.  They know the use of a tutor, as they know
the use of a horse; and they draw the greatest amount of benefit out
of both.  The reading men are kept by hard walking, hard riding, and
measured eating and drinking, at the top of their condition, and two
days before the examination, do not work, but lounge, ride, or run,
to be fresh on the college doomsday.  Seven years' residence is the
theoretic period for a master's degree.  In point of fact, it has
long been three years' residence, and four years more of standing.
This "three years" is about twenty-one months in all.  (* 1)
        (* 1) Huber, ii. p. 304.
        "The whole expense," says Professor Sewel, "of ordinary college
tuition at Oxford, is about sixteen guineas a year." But this plausible
statement may deceive a reader unacquainted with the fact, that the principal
teaching relied on is private tuition.  And the expenses of private tuition
are reckoned at from 50 to 70 pounds a year, or, $1000 for the whole course
of three years and a half.  At Cambridge $750 a year is economical, and $1500
not extravagant.  (* 2)
        (* 2) Bristed.  Five Years at an English University.
        The number of students and of residents, the dignity of the
authorities, the value of the foundations, the history and the
architecture, the known sympathy of entire Britain in what is done
there, justify a dedication to study in the undergraduate, such as
cannot easily be in America, where his college is half suspected by
the Freshman to be insignificant in the scale beside trade and
politics.  Oxford is a little aristocracy in itself, numerous and
dignified enough to rank with other estates in the realm; and where
fame and secular promotion are to be had for study, and in a
direction which has the unanimous respect of all cultivated nations.
        This aristocracy, of course, repairs its own losses; fills places, as
they fall vacant, from the body of students.  The number of fellowships at
Oxford is 540, averaging 200 pounds a year, with lodging and diet at the
college.  If a young American, loving learning, and hindered by poverty, were
offered a home, a table, the walks, and the library, in one of these
academical palaces, and a thousand dollars a year as long as he chose to
remain a bachelor, he would dance for joy.  Yet these young men thus happily
placed, and paid to read, are impatient of their few checks, and many of them
preparing to resign their fellowships.  They shuddered at the prospect of
dying a Fellow, and they pointed out to me a paralytic old man, who was
assisted into the hall.  As the number of undergraduates at Oxford is only
about 1200 or 1300, and many of these are never competitors, the chance of a
fellowship is very great.  The income of the nineteen colleges is conjectured
at 150,000 pounds a year.
