
        The effect of this drill is the radical knowledge of Greek and
Latin, and of mathematics, and the solidity and taste of English
criticism.  Whatever luck there may be in this or that award, an Eton
captain can write Latin longs and shorts, can turn the Court-Guide
into hexameters, and it is certain that a Senior Classic can quote
correctly from the _Corpus Poetarum_, and is critically learned in
all the humanities.  Greek erudition exists on the Isis and Cam,
whether the Maud man or the Brazen Nose man be properly ranked or
not; the atmosphere is loaded with Greek learning; the whole river
has reached a certain height, and kills all that growth of weeds,
which this Castalian water kills.  The English nature takes culture
kindly.  So Milton thought.  It refines the Norseman.  Access to the
Greek mind lifts his standard of taste.  He has enough to think of,
and, unless of an impulsive nature, is indisposed from writing or
speaking, by the fulness of his mind, and the new severity of his
taste.  The great silent crowd of thorough-bred Grecians always known
to be around him, the English writer cannot ignore.  They prune his
orations, and point his pen.  Hence, the style and tone of English
journalism.  The men have learned accuracy and comprehension, logic,
and pace, or speed of working.  They have bottom, endurance, wind.
When born with good constitutions, they make those eupeptic
studying-mills, the cast-iron men, the _dura ilia_, whose powers of
performance compare with ours, as the steam-hammer with the
music-box; -- Cokes, Mansfields, Seldens, and Bentleys, and when it
happens that a superior brain puts a rider on this admirable horse,
we obtain those masters of the world who combine the highest energy
in affairs, with a supreme culture.
        It is contended by those who have been bred at Eton, Harrow,
Rugby, and Westminster, that the public sentiment within each of
those schools is high-toned and manly; that, in their playgrounds,
courage is universally admired, meanness despised, manly feelings and
generous conduct are encouraged: that an unwritten code of honor
deals to the spoiled child of rank, and to the child of upstart
wealth an even-handed justice, purges their nonsense out of both, and
does all that can be done to make them gentlemen.
        Again, at the universities, it is urged, that all goes to form
what England values as the flower of its national life, -- a
well-educated gentleman.  The German Huber, in describing to his
countrymen the attributes of an English gentleman, frankly admits,
that, "in Germany, we have nothing of the kind.  A gentleman must
possess a political character, an independent and public position,
or, at least, the right of assuming it.  He must have average
opulence, either of his own, or in his family.  He should also have
bodily activity and strength, unattainable by our sedentary life in
public offices.  The race of English gentlemen presents an appearance
of manly vigor and form, not elsewhere to be found among an equal
number of persons.  No other nation produces the stock.  And, in
England, it has deteriorated.  The university is a decided
presumption in any man's favor.  And so eminent are the members that
a glance at the calendars will show that in all the world one cannot
be in better company than on the books of one of the larger Oxford or
Cambridge colleges." (* 3)
        (* 3) Huber: History of the English Universities.  Newman's
Translation.
        These seminaries are finishing schools for the upper classes,
and not for the poor.  The useful is exploded.  The definition of a
public school is "a school which excludes all that could fit a man
for standing behind a counter."  (* 4)
        (* 4) See Bristed.  Five Years in an English University.  New
York. 1852.
        No doubt, the foundations have been perverted.  Oxford, which
equals in wealth several of the smaller European states, shuts up the
lectureships which were made "public for all men thereunto to have
concourse;" mis-spends the revenues bestowed for such youths "as
should be most meet for towardness, poverty, and painfulness;" there
is gross favoritism; many chairs and many fellowships are made beds
of ease; and 'tis likely that the university will know how to resist
and make inoperative the terrors of parliamentary inquiry; no doubt,
their learning is grown obsolete; -- but Oxford also has its merits,
and I found here also proof of the national fidelity and
thoroughness.  Such knowledge as they prize they possess and impart.
Whether in course or by indirection, whether by a cramming tutor or
by examiners with prizes and foundation scholarships, education
according to the English notion of it is arrived at.  I looked over
the Examination Papers of the year 1848, for the various scholarships
and fellowships, the Lusby, the Hertford, the Dean-Ireland, and the
University, (copies of which were kindly given me by a Greek
professor,) containing the tasks which many competitors had
victoriously performed, and I believed they would prove too severe
tests for the candidates for a Bachelor's degree in Yale or Harvard.
And, in general, here was proof of a more searching study in the
appointed directions, and the knowledge pretended to be conveyed was
conveyed.  Oxford sends out yearly twenty or thirty very able men,
and three or four hundred well-educated men.
        The diet and rough exercise secure a certain amount of old
Norse power.  A fop will fight, and, in exigent circumstances, will
play the manly part.  In seeing these youths, I believed I saw
already an advantage in vigor and color and general habit, over their
contemporaries in the American colleges.  No doubt much of the power
and brilliancy of the reading-men is merely constitutional or
hygienic.  With a hardier habit and resolute gymnastics, with five
miles more walking, or five ounces less eating, or with a saddle and
gallop of twenty miles a day, with skating and rowing-matches, the
American would arrive at as robust exegesis, and cheery and hilarious
tone.  I should readily concede these advantages, which it would be
easy to acquire, if I did not find also that they read better than
we, and write better.
