
        (* 1) Wordsworth.
 
        The English church has many certificates to show, of humble
effective service in humanizing the people, in cheering and refining
men, feeding, healing, and educating.  It has the seal of martyrs and
confessors; the noblest books; a sublime architecture; a ritual
marked by the same secular merits, nothing cheap or purchasable.
        From this slow-grown church important reactions proceed; much
for culture, much for giving a direction to the nation's affection
and will to-day.  The carved and pictured chapel, -- its entire
surface animated with image and emblem, -- made the parish-church a
sort of book and Bible to the people's eye.
        Then, when the Saxon instinct had secured a service in the
vernacular tongue, it was the tutor and university of the people.  In
York minster, on the day of the enthronization of the new archbishop,
I heard the service of evening prayer read and chanted in the choir.
It was strange to hear the pretty pastoral of the betrothal of
Rebecca and Isaac, in the morning of the world, read with
circumstantiality in York minster, on the 13th January, 1848, to the
decorous English audience, just fresh from the Times newspaper and
their wine; and listening with all the devotion of national pride.
That was binding old and new to some purpose.  The reverence for the
Scriptures is an element of civilization, for thus has the history of
the world been preserved, and is preserved.  Here in England every
day a chapter of Genesis, and a leader in the Times.
        Another part of the same service on this occasion was not
insignificant.  Handel's coronation anthem, _God save the King_, was
played by Dr. Camidge on the organ, with sublime effect.  The minster
and the music were made for each other.  It was a hint of the part
the church plays as a political engine.  From his infancy, every
Englishman is accustomed to hear daily prayers for the queen, for the
royal family and the Parliament, by name; and this lifelong
consecration of these personages cannot be without influence on his
opinions.
        The universities, also, are parcel of the ecclesiastical
system, and their first design is to form the clergy.  Thus the
clergy for a thousand years have been the scholars of the nation.
        The national temperament deeply enjoys the unbroken order and
tradition of its church; the liturgy, ceremony, architecture the
sober grace, the good company, the connection with the throne, and
with history, which adorn it.  And whilst it endears itself thus to
men of more taste than activity, the stability of the English nation
is passionately enlisted to its support, from its inextricable
connection with the cause of public order, with politics and with the
funds.
        Good churches are not built by bad men; at least, there must be
probity and enthusiasm somewhere in the society.  These minsters were
neither built nor filled by atheists.  No church has had more
learned, industrious or devoted men; plenty of "clerks and bishops,
who, out of their gowns, would turn their backs on no man."  (* 2)
Their architecture still glows with faith in immortality.  Heats and
genial periods arrive in history, or, shall we say, plentitudes of
Divine Presence, by which high tides are caused in the human spirit,
and great virtues and talents appear, as in the eleventh, twelfth,
thirteenth, and again in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries,
when the nation was full of genius and piety.
        (* 2) Fuller.
