
        But the age of the Wicliffes, Cobhams, Arundels, Beckets; of
the Latimers, Mores, Cranmers; of the Taylors, Leightons, Herberts;
of the Sherlocks, and Butlers, is gone.  Silent revolutions in
opinion have made it impossible that men like these should return, or
find a place in their once sacred stalls.  The spirit that dwelt in
this church has glided away to animate other activities; and they who
come to the old shrines find apes and players rustling the old
garments.
        The religion of England is part of good-breeding.  When you see
on the continent the well-dressed Englishman come into his
ambassador's chapel, and put his face for silent prayer into his
smooth-brushed hat, one cannot help feeling how much national pride
prays with him, and the religion of a gentleman.  So far is he from
attaching any meaning to the words, that he believes himself to have
done almost the generous thing, and that it is very condescending in
him to pray to God.  A great duke said, on the occasion of a victory,
in the House of Lords, that he thought the Almighty God had not been
well used by them, and that it would become their magnanimity, after
so great successes, to take order that a proper acknowledgment be
made.  It is the church of the gentry; but it is not the church of
the poor.  The operatives do not own it, and gentlemen lately
testified in the House of Commons that in their lives they never saw
a poor man in a ragged coat inside a church.
        The torpidity on the side of religion of the vigorous English
understanding, shows how much wit and folly can agree in one brain.
Their religion is a quotation; their church is a doll; and any
examination is interdicted with screams of terror.  In good company,
you expect them to laugh at the fanaticism of the vulgar; but they do
not: they are the vulgar.
        The English, in common perhaps with Christendom in the
nineteenth century, do not respect power, but only performance; value
ideas only for an economic result.  Wellington esteems a saint only
as far as he can be an army chaplain: -- "Mr. Briscoll, by his
admirable conduct and good sense, got the better of Methodism, which
had appeared among the soldiers, and once among the officers." They
value a philosopher as they value an apothecary who brings bark or a
drench; and inspiration is only some blowpipe, or a finer mechanical
aid.
        I suspect that there is in an Englishman's brain a valve that
can be closed at pleasure, as an engineer shuts off steam.  The most
sensible and well-informed men possess the power of thinking just so
far as the bishop in religious matters, and as the chancellor of the
exchequer in politics.  They talk with courage and logic, and show
you magnificent results, but the same men who have brought free trade
or geology to their present standing, look grave and lofty, and shut
down their valve, as soon as the conversation approaches the English
church.  After that, you talk with a box-turtle.
        The action of the university, both in what is taught, and in
the spirit of the place, is directed more on producing an English
gentleman, than a saint or a psychologist.  It ripens a bishop, and
extrudes a philosopher.  I do not know that there is more cabalism in
the Anglican, than in other churches, but the Anglican clergy are
identified with the aristocracy.  They say, here, that, if you talk
with a clergyman, you are sure to find him well-bred, informed, and
candid.  He entertains your thought or your project with sympathy and
praise.  But if a second clergyman come in, the sympathy is at an
end: two together are inaccessible to your thought, and, whenever it
comes to action, the clergyman invariably sides with his church.
        The Anglican church is marked by the grace and good sense of
its forms, by the manly grace of its clergy.  The gospel it preaches,
is, `By taste are ye saved.' It keeps the old structures in repair,
spends a world of money in music and building; and in buying Pugin,
and architectural literature.  It has a general good name for amenity
and mildness.  It is not in ordinary a persecuting church; it is not
inquisitorial, not even inquisitive, is perfectly well-bred, and can
shut its eyes on all proper occasions.  If you let it alone, it will
let you alone.  But its instinct is hostile to all change in
politics, literature, or social arts.  The church has not been the
founder of the London University, of the Mechanics' Institutes, of
the Free School, or whatever aims at diffusion of knowledge.  The
Platonists of Oxford are as bitter against this heresy, as Thomas
Taylor.
        The doctrine of the Old Testament is the religion of England.
The first leaf of the New Testament it does not open.  It believes in
a Providence which does not treat with levity a pound sterling.  They
are neither transcendentalists nor christians.  They put up no
Socratic prayer, much less any saintly prayer for the queen's mind;
ask neither for light nor right, but say bluntly, "grant her in
health and wealth long to live." And one traces this Jewish prayer in
all English private history, from the prayers of King Richard, in
Richard of Devizes' Chronicle, to those in the diaries of Sir Samuel
Romilly, and of Haydon the painter.  "Abroad with my wife," writes
Pepys piously, "the first time that ever I rode in my own coach;
which do make my heart rejoice and praise God, and pray him to bless
it to me, and continue it." The bill for the naturalization of the
Jews (in 1753) was resisted by petitions from all parts of the
kingdom, and by petition from the city of London, reprobating this
bill, as "tending extremely to the dishonor of the Christian
religion, and extremely injurious to the interests and commerce of
the kingdom in general, and of the city of London in particular."
