
 
        It has been said that the King of England would consult his
dignity by giving audience to foreign ambassadors in the cabin of a
man-of-war.  And I think the white path of an Atlantic ship the right
avenue to the palace front of this sea-faring people, who for
hundreds of years claimed the strict sovereignty of the sea, and
exacted toll and the striking sail from the ships of all other
peoples.  When their privilege was disputed by the Dutch and other
junior marines, on the plea that you could never anchor on the same
wave, or hold property in what was always flowing, the English did
not stick to claim the channel, or bottom of all the main.  "As if,"
said they, "we contended for the drops of the sea, and not for its
situation, or the bed of those waters.  The sea is bounded by his
majesty's empire."
        As we neared the land, its genius was felt.  This was
inevitably the British side.  In every man's thought arises now a new
system, English sentiments, English loves and fears, English history
and social modes.  Yesterday, every passenger had measured the speed
of the ship by watching the bubbles over the ship's bulwarks.
To-day, instead of bubbles, we measure by Kinsale, Cork, Waterford,
and Ardmore.  There lay the green shore of Ireland, like some coast
of plenty.  We could see towns, towers, churches, harvests; but the
curse of eight hundred years we could not discern.
 
 
 
        Chapter III _Land_
        Alfieri thought Italy and England the only countries worth
living in; the former, because there nature vindicates her rights,
and triumphs over the evils inflicted by the governments; the latter,
because art conquers nature, and transforms a rude, ungenial land
into a paradise of comfort and plenty.  England is a garden.  Under
an ash-colored sky, the fields have been combed and rolled till they
appear to have been finished with a pencil instead of a plough.  The
solidity of the structures that compose the towns speaks the industry
of ages.  Nothing is left as it was made.  Rivers, hills, valleys,
the sea itself feel the hand of a master.  The long habitation of a
powerful and ingenious race has turned every rood of land to its best
use, has found all the capabilities, the arable soil, the quarriable
rock, the highways, the byways, the fords, the navigable waters; and
the new arts of intercourse meet you every where; so that England is
a huge phalanstery, where all that man wants is provided within the
precinct.  Cushioned and comforted in every manner, the traveller
rides as on a cannon-ball, high and low, over rivers and towns,
through mountains, in tunnels of three or four miles, at near twice
the speed of our trains; and reads quietly the Times newspaper,
which, by its immense correspondence and reporting, seems to have
machinized the rest of the world for his occasion.
        The problem of the traveller landing at Liverpool is, Why
England is England?  What are the elements of that power which the
English hold over other nations?  If there be one test of national
genius universally accepted, it is success; and if there be one
successful country in the universe for the last millennium, that
country is England.
        A wise traveller will naturally choose to visit the best of
actual nations; and an American has more reasons than another to draw
him to Britain.  In all that is done or begun by the Americans
towards right thinking or practice, we are met by a civilization
already settled and overpowering.  The culture of the day, the
thoughts and aims of men, are English thoughts and aims.  A nation
considerable for a thousand years since Egbert, it has, in the last
centuries, obtained the ascendant, and stamped the knowledge,
activity, and power of mankind with its impress.  Those who resist it
do not feel it or obey it less.  The Russian in his snows is aiming
to be English.  The Turk and Chinese also are making awkward efforts
to be English.  The practical common-sense of modern society, the
utilitarian direction which labor, laws, opinion, religion take, is
the natural genius of the British mind.  The influence of France is a
constituent of modern civility, but not enough opposed to the English
for the most wholesome effect.  The American is only the continuation
of the English genius into new conditions, more or less propitious.
        See what books fill our libraries.  Every book we read, every
biography, play, romance, in whatever form, is still English history
and manners.  So that a sensible Englishman once said to me, "As long
as you do not grant us copyright, we shall have the teaching of you."
        But we have the same difficulty in making a social or moral
estimate of England, as the sheriff finds in drawing a jury to try
some cause which has agitated the whole community, and on which every
body finds himself an interested party.  Officers, jurors, judges
have all taken sides.  England has inoculated all nations with her
civilization, intelligence, and tastes; and, to resist the tyranny
and prepossession of the British element, a serious man must aid
himself, by comparing with it the civilizations of the farthest east
and west, the old Greek, the Oriental, and, much more, the ideal
standard, if only by means of the very impatience which English forms
are sure to awaken in independent minds.
