
 
 
        Chapter XIV _Literature_
        A strong common sense, which it is not easy to unseat or
disturb, marks the English mind for a thousand years: a rude strength
newly applied to thought, as of sailors and soldiers who had lately
learned to read.  They have no fancy, and never are surprised into a
covert or witty word, such as pleased the Athenians and Italians, and
was convertible into a fable not long after; but they delight in
strong earthy expression, not mistakable, coarsely true to the human
body, and, though spoken among princes, equally fit and welcome to
the mob.  This homeliness, veracity, and plain style, appear in the
earliest extant works, and in the latest.  It imports into songs and
ballads the smell of the earth, the breath of cattle, and, like a
Dutch painter, seeks a household charm, though by pails and pans.
They ask their constitutional utility in verse.  The kail and
herrings are never out of sight.  The poet nimbly recovers himself
from every sally of the imagination.  The English muse loves the
farmyard, the lane, and market.  She says, with De Stael, "I tramp in
the mire with wooden shoes, whenever they would force me into the
clouds." For, the Englishman has accurate perceptions; takes hold of
things by the right end, and there is no slipperiness in his grasp.
He loves the axe, the spade, the oar, the gun, the steampipe: he has
built the engine he uses.  He is materialist, economical, mercantile.
He must be treated with sincerity and reality, with muffins, and not
the promise of muffins; and prefers his hot chop, with perfect
security and convenience in the eating of it, to the chances of the
amplest and Frenchiest bill of fare, engraved on embossed paper.
When he is intellectual, and a poet or a philosopher, he carries the
same hard truth and the same keen machinery into the mental sphere.
His mind must stand on a fact.  He will not be baffled, or catch at
clouds, but the mind must have a symbol palpable and resisting.  What
he relishes in Dante, is the vice-like tenacity with which he holds a
mental image before the eyes, as if it were a scutcheon painted on a
shield.  Byron "liked something craggy to break his mind upon." A
taste for plain strong speech, what is called a biblical style, marks
the English.  It is in Alfred, and the Saxon Chronicle, and in the
Sagas of the Northmen.  Latimer was homely.  Hobbes was perfect in
the "noble vulgar speech." Donne, Bunyan, Milton, Taylor, Evelyn,
Pepys, Hooker, Cotton, and the translators, wrote it.  How realistic
or materialistic in treatment of his subject, is Swift.  He describes
his fictitious persons, as if for the police.  Defoe has no
insecurity or choice.  Hudibras has the same hard mentality, --
keeping the truth at once to the senses, and to the intellect.
        It is not less seen in poetry.  Chaucer's hard painting of his
Canterbury pilgrims satisfies the senses.  Shakspeare, Spenser, and
Milton, in their loftiest ascents, have this national grip and
exactitude of mind.  This mental materialism makes the value of
English transcendental genius; in these writers, and in Herbert,
Henry More, Donne, and Sir Thomas Browne.  The Saxon materialism and
narrowness, exalted into the sphere of intellect, makes the very
genius of Shakspeare and Milton.  When it reaches the pure element,
it treads the clouds as securely as the adamant.  Even in its
elevations, materialistic, its poetry is common sense inspired; or
iron raised to white heat.
        The marriage of the two qualities is in their speech.  It is a
tacit rule of the language to make the frame or skeleton, of Saxon
words, and, when elevation or ornament is sought, to interweave
Roman; but sparingly; nor is a sentence made of Roman words alone,
without loss of strength.  The children and laborers use the Saxon
unmixed.  The Latin unmixed is abandoned to the colleges and
Parliament.  Mixture is a secret of the English island; and, in their
dialect, the male principle is the Saxon; the female, the Latin; and
they are combined in every discourse.  A good writer, if he has
indulged in a Roman roundness, makes haste to chasten and nerve his
period by English monosyllables.
        When the Gothic nations came into Europe, they found it lighted
with the sun and moon of Hebrew and of Greek genius.  The tablets of
their brain, long kept in the dark, were finely sensible to the
double glory.  To the images from this twin source (of Christianity
and art), the mind became fruitful as by the incubation of the Holy
Ghost.  The English mind flowered in every faculty.  The common-sense
was surprised and inspired.  For two centuries, England was
philosophic, religious, poetic.  The mental furniture seemed of
larger scale; the memory capacious like the storehouse of the rains;
the ardor and endurance of study; the boldness and facility of their
mental construction; their fancy, and imagination, and easy spanning
of vast distances of thought; the enterprise or accosting of new
subjects; and, generally, the easy exertion of power, astonish, like
the legendary feats of Guy of Warwick.  The union of Saxon precision
and oriental soaring, of which Shakspeare is the perfect example, is
shared in less degree by the writers of two centuries.  I find not
only the great masters out of all rivalry and reach, but the whole
writing of the time charged with a masculine force and freedom.
        There is a hygienic simpleness, rough vigor, and closeness to
the matter in hand, even in the second and third class of writers;
and, I think, in the common style of the people, as one finds it in
the citation of wills, letters, and public documents, in proverbs,
and forms of speech.  The more hearty and sturdy expression may
indicate that the savageness of the Norseman was not all gone.  Their
dynamic brains hurled off their words, as the revolving stone hurls
off scraps of grit.  I could cite from the seventeenth century
sentences and phrases of edge not to be matched in the nineteenth.
Their poets by simple force of mind equalized themselves with the
accumulated science of ours.  The country gentlemen had a posset or
drink they called October; and the poets, as if by this hint, knew
how to distil the whole season into their autumnal verses: and, as
nature, to pique the more, sometimes works up deformities into
beauty, in some rare Aspasia, or Cleopatra; and, as the Greek art
wrought many a vase or column, in which too long, or too lithe, or
nodes, or pits and flaws, are made a beauty of; so these were so
quick and vital, that they could charm and enrich by mean and vulgar
objects.
        A man must think that age well taught and thoughtful, by which
masques and poems, like those of Ben Jonson, full of heroic sentiment
in a manly style, were received with favor.  The unique fact in
literary history, the unsurprised reception of Shakspeare; -- the
reception proved by his making his fortune; and the apathy proved by
the absence of all contemporary panegyric, -- seems to demonstrate an
elevation in the mind of the people.  Judge of the splendor of a
nation, by the insignificance of great individuals in it.  The manner
in which they learned Greek and Latin, before our modern facilities
were yet ready, without dictionaries, grammars, or indexes, by
lectures of a professor, followed by their own searchings, --
required a more robust memory, and cooperation of all the faculties;
and their scholars, Camden, Usher, Selden, Mede, Gataker, Hooker,
Taylor, Burton, Bentley, Brian Walton, acquired the solidity and
method of engineers.
        The influence of Plato tinges the British genius.  Their minds
loved analogy; were cognisant of resemblances, and climbers on the
staircase of unity.  'Tis a very old strife between those who elect
to see identity, and those who elect to see discrepances; and it
renews itself in Britain.  The poets, of course, are of one part; the
men of the world, of the other.  But Britain had many disciples of
Plato; -- More, Hooker, Bacon, Sidney, Lord Brooke, Herbert, Browne,
Donne, Spenser, Chapman, Milton, Crashaw, Norris, Cudworth, Berkeley,
Jeremy Taylor.
