
        The brilliant Macaulay, who expresses the tone of the English
governing classes of the day, explicitly teaches, that _good_ means
good to eat, good to wear, material commodity; that the glory of
modern philosophy is its direction on "fruit;" to yield economical
inventions; and that its merit is to avoid ideas, and avoid morals.
He thinks it the distinctive merit of the Baconian philosophy, in its
triumph over the old Platonic, its disentangling the intellect from
theories of the all-Fair and all-Good, and pinning it down to the
making a better sick chair and a better wine-whey for an invalid; --
this not ironically, but in good faith; -- that, "solid advantage,"
as he calls it, meaning always sensual benefit, is the only good.
The eminent benefit of astronomy is the better navigation it creates
to enable the fruit-ships to bring home their lemons and wine to the
London grocer.  It was a curious result, in which the civility and
religion of England for a thousand years, ends, in denying morals,
and reducing the intellect to a sauce-pan.  The critic hides his
skepticism under the English cant of practical.  To convince the
reason, to touch the conscience, is romantic pretension.  The fine
arts fall to the ground.  Beauty, except as luxurious commodity, does
not exist.  It is very certain, I may say in passing, that if Lord
Bacon had been only the sensualist his critic pretends, he would
never have acquired the fame which now entitles him to this
patronage.  It is because he had imagination, the leisures of the
spirit, and basked in an element of contemplation out of all modern
English atmospheric gauges, that he is impressive to the imaginations
of men, and has become a potentate not to be ignored.  Sir David
Brewster sees the high place of Bacon, without finding Newton
indebted to him, and thinks it a mistake.  Bacon occupies it by
specific gravity or levity, not by any feat he did, or by any
tutoring more or less of Newton &c., but an effect of the same cause
which showed itself more pronounced afterwards in Hooke, Boyle, and
Halley.
        Coleridge, a catholic mind, with a hunger for ideas, with eyes
looking before and after to the highest bards and sages, and who
wrote and spoke the only high criticism in his time, -- is one of
those who save England from the reproach of no longer possessing the
capacity to appreciate what rarest wit the island has yielded.  Yet
the misfortune of his life, his vast attempts but most inadequate
performings, failing to accomplish any one masterpiece, seems to mark
the closing of an era.  Even in him, the traditional Englishman was
too strong for the philosopher, and he fell into _accommodations_:
and, as Burke had striven to idealize the English State, so Coleridge
`narrowed his mind' in the attempt to reconcile the gothic rule and
dogma of the Anglican Church, with eternal ideas.  But for Coleridge,
and a lurking taciturn minority, uttering itself in occasional
criticism, oftener in private discourse, one would say, that in
Germany and in America, is the best mind in England rightly
respected.  It is the surest sign of national decay, when the Bramins
can no longer read or understand the Braminical philosophy.
        In the decomposition and asphyxia that followed all this
materialism, Carlyle was driven by his disgust at the pettiness and
the cant, into the preaching of Fate.  In comparison with all this
rottenness, any check, any cleansing, though by fire, seemed
desirable and beautiful.  He saw little difference in the gladiators,
or the "causes" for which they combated; the one comfort was, that
they were all going speedily into the abyss together: And his
imagination, finding no nutriment in any creation, avenged itself by
celebrating the majestic beauty of the laws of decay.  The
necessities of mental structure force all minds into a few
categories, and where impatience of the tricks of men makes Nemesis
amiable, and builds altars to the negative Deity, the inevitable
recoil is to heroism or the gallantry of the private heart, which
decks its immolation with glory, in the unequal combat of will
against fate.
        Wilkinson, the editor of Swedenborg, the annotator of Fourier,
and the champion of Hahnemann, has brought to metaphysics and to
physiology a native vigor, with a catholic perception of relations,
equal to the highest attempts, and a rhetoric like the armory of the
invincible knights of old.  There is in the action of his mind a long
Atlantic roll not known except in deepest waters, and only lacking
what ought to accompany such powers, a manifest centrality.  If his
mind does not rest in immovable biases, perhaps the orbit is larger,
and the return is not yet: but a master should inspire a confidence
that he will adhere to his convictions, and give his present studies
always the same high place.
        It would be easy to add exceptions to the limitary tone of
English thought, and much more easy to adduce examples of excellence
in particular veins: and if, going out of the region of dogma, we
pass into that of general culture, there is no end to the graces and
amenities, wit, sensibility and erudition, of the learned class.  But
the artificial succor which marks all English performance, appears in
letters also: much of their aesthetic production is antiquarian and
manufactured, and literary reputations have been achieved by forcible
men, whose relation to literature was purely accidental, but who were
driven by tastes and modes they found in vogue into their several
careers.  So, at this moment, every ambitious young man studies
geology: so members of Parliament are made, and churchmen.
        The bias of Englishmen to practical skill has reacted on the
national mind.  They are incapable of an inutility, and respect the
five mechanic powers even in their song.  The voice of their modern
muse has a slight hint of the steam-whistle, and the poem is created
as an ornament and finish of their monarchy, and by no means as the
bird of a new morning which forgets the past world in the full
enjoyment of that which is forming.  They are with difficulty ideal;
they are the most conditioned men, as if, having the best conditions,
they could not bring themselves to forfeit them.  Every one of them
is a thousand years old, and lives by his memory: and when you say
this, they accept it as praise.
        Nothing comes to the book-shops but politics, travels,
statistics, tabulation, and engineering, and even what is called
philosophy and letters is mechanical in its structure, as if
inspiration had ceased, as if no vast hope, no religion, no song of
joy, no wisdom, no analogy, existed any more.  The tone of colleges,
and of scholars and of literary society has this mortal air.  I seem
to walk on a marble floor, where nothing will grow.  They exert every
variety of talent on a lower ground, and may be said to live and act
in a sub-mind.  They have lost all commanding views in literature,
philosophy, and science.  A good Englishman shuts himself out of
three fourths of his mind, and confines himself to one fourth.  He
has learning, good sense, power of labor, and logic: but a faith in
the laws of the mind like that of Archimedes; a belief like that of
Euler and Kepler, that experience must follow and not lead the laws
of the mind; a devotion to the theory of politics, like that of
Hooker, and Milton, and Harrington, the modern English mind
repudiates.
        I fear the same fault lies in their science, since they have
known how to make it repulsive, and bereave nature of its charm; --
though perhaps the complaint flies wider, and the vice attaches to
many more than to British physicists.  The eye of the naturalist must
have a scope like nature itself, a susceptibility to all impressions,
alive to the heart as well as to the logic of creation.  But English
science puts humanity to the door.  It wants the connection which is
the test of genius.  The science is false by not being poetic.  It
isolates the reptile or mollusk it assumes to explain; whilst reptile
or mollusk only exists in system, in relation.  The poet only sees it
as an inevitable step in the path of the Creator.  But, in England,
one hermit finds this fact, and another finds that, and lives and
dies ignorant of its value.  There are great exceptions, of John
Hunter, a man of ideas; perhaps of Robert Brown, the botanist; and of
Richard Owen, who has imported into Britain the German homologies,
and enriched science with contributions of his own, adding sometimes
the divination of the old masters to the unbroken power of labor in
the English mind.  But for the most part, the natural science in
England is out of its loyal alliance with morals, and is as void of
imagination and free play of thought, as conveyancing.  It stands in
strong contrast with the genius of the Germans, those semi-Greeks,
who love analogy, and, by means of their height of view, preserve
their enthusiasm, and think for Europe.
