
        Meantime, I know that a retrieving power lies in the English
race, which seems to make any recoil possible; in other words, there
is at all times a minority of profound minds existing in the nation,
capable of appreciating every soaring of intellect and every hint of
tendency.  While the constructive talent seems dwarfed and
superficial, the criticism is often in the noblest tone, and suggests
the presence of the invisible gods.  I can well believe what I have
often heard, that there are two nations in England; but it is not the
Poor and the Rich; nor is it the Normans and Saxons; nor the Celt and
the Goth.  These are each always becoming the other; for Robert Owen
does not exaggerate the power of circumstance.  But the two
complexions, or two styles of mind, -- the perceptive class, and the
practical finality class, -- are ever in counterpoise, interacting
mutually; one, in hopeless minorities; the other, in huge masses; one
studious, contemplative, experimenting; the other, the ungrateful
pupil, scornful of the source, whilst availing itself of the
knowledge for gain; these two nations, of genius and of animal force,
though the first consist of only a dozen souls, and the second of
twenty millions, forever by their discord and their accord yield the
power of the English State.
 
        Chapter XV _The "Times"_
        The power of the newspaper is familiar in America, and in
accordance with our political systemgonism with the feudal
institutions, and it is all the more beneficent succor against the
secretive tendencies of a monarchy.  The celebrated Lord Somers "knew
of no good law proposed and passed in his time, to which the public
papers had not directed his attention." There is no corner and no
night.  A relentless inquisition drags every secret to the day, turns
the glare of this solar microscope on every malfaisance, so as to
make the public a more terrible spy than any foreigner; and no
weakness can be taken advantage of by an enemy, since the whole
people are already forewarned.  Thus England rids herself of those
incrustations which have been the ruin of old states.  Of course,
this inspection is feared.  No antique privilege, no comfortable
monopoly, but sees surely that its days are counted; the people are
familiarized with the reason of reform, and, one by one, take away
every argument of the obstructives.  "So your grace likes the comfort
of reading the newspapers," said Lord Mansfield to the Duke of
Northumberland; "mark my words; you and I shall not live to see it,
but this young gentleman (Lord Eldon) may, or it may be a little
later; but a little sooner or later, these newspapers will most
assuredly write the dukes of Northumberland out of their titles and
possessions, and the country out of its king." The tendency in
England towards social and political institutions like those of
America, is inevitable, and the ability of its journals is the
driving force.
        England is full of manly, clever, well-bred men who possess the
talent of writing off-hand pungent paragraphs, expressing with
clearness and courage their opinion on any person or performance.
Valuable or not, it is a skill that is rarely found, out of the
English journals.  The English do this, as they write poetry, as they
ride and box, by being educated to it.  Hundreds of clever Praeds,
and Freres, and Froudes, and Hoods, and Hooks, and Maginns, and
Mills, and Macaulays, make poems, or short essays for a journal, as
they make speeches in Parliament and on the hustings, or, as they
shoot and ride.  It is a quite accidental and arbitrary direction of
their general ability.  Rude health and spirits, an Oxford education,
and the habits of society are implied, but not a ray of genius.  It
comes of the crowded state of the professions, the violent interest
which all men take in politics, the facility of experimenting in the
journals, and high pay.
        The most conspicuous result of this talent is the "Times"
newspaper.  No power in England is more felt, more feared, or more
obeyed.  What you read in the morning in that journal, you shall hear
in the evening in all society.  It has ears every where, and its
information is earliest, completest, and surest.  It has risen, year
by year, and victory by victory, to its present authority.  I asked
one of its old contributors, whether it had once been abler than it
is now?  "Never," he said; "these are its palmiest days." It has
shown those qualities which are dear to Englishmen, unflinching
adherence to its objects, prodigal intellectual ability, and a
towering assurance, backed by the perfect organization in its
printing-house, and its world-wide net-work of correspondence and
reports.  It has its own history and famous trophies.  In 1820, it
adopted the cause of Queen Caroline, and carried it against the king.
It adopted a poor-law system, and almost alone lifted it through.
When Lord Brougham was in power, it decided against him, and pulled
him down.  It declared war against Ireland, and conquered it.  It
adopted the League against the Corn Laws, and, when Cobden had begun
to despair, it announced his triumph.  It denounced and discredited
the French Republic of 1848, and checked every sympathy with it in
England, until it had enrolled 200,000 special constables to watch
the Chartists, and make them ridiculous on the 10th April.  It first
denounced and then adopted the new French Empire, and urged the
French Alliance and its results.  It has entered into each municipal,
literary, and social question, almost with a controlling voice.  It
has done bold and seasonable service in exposing frauds which
threatened the commercial community.  Meantime, it attacks its rivals
by perfecting its printing machinery, and will drive them out of
circulation: for the only limit to the circulation of the "Times is
the impossibility of printing copies fast enough; since a daily paper
can only be new and seasonable for a few hours.  It will kill all but
that paper which is diametrically in opposition; since many papers,
first and last, have lived by their attacks on the leading journal.
        The late Mr. Walter was printer of the "Times," and had
gradually arranged the whole _materiel_ of it in perfect system.  It
is told, that when he demanded a small share in the proprietary, and
was refused, he said, "As you please, gentlemen; and you may take
away the `Times' from this office, when you will; I shall publish the
`New Times,' next Monday morning." The proprietors, who had already
complained that his charges for printing were excessive, found that
they were in his power, and gave him whatever he wished.
        I went one day with a good friend to the "Times" office, which
was entered through a pretty garden-yard, in Printing-House Square.
We walked with some circumspection, as if we were entering a
powder-mill; but the door was opened by a mild old woman, and, by
dint of some transmission of cards, we were at last conducted into
the parlor of Mr. Morris, a very gentle person, with no hostile
appearances.  The statistics are now quite out of date, but I
remember he told us that the daily printing was then 35,000 copies;
that on the 1st March, 1848, the greatest number ever printed, --
54,000 were issued; that, since February, the daily circulation had
increased by 8000 copies.  The old press they were then using printed
five or six thousand sheets per hour; the new machine, for which they
were then building an engine, would print twelve thousand per hour.
Our entertainer confided us to a courteous assistant to show us the
establishment, in which, I think, they employed a hundred and twenty
men.  I remember, I saw the reporters' room, in which they redact
their hasty stenographs, but the editor's room, and who is in it, I
did not see, though I shared the curiosity of mankind respecting it.
        The staff of the "Times" has always been made up of able men.
Old Walter, Sterling, Bacon, Barnes, Alsiger, Horace Twiss, Jones
Loyd, John Oxenford, Mr. Mosely, Mr. Bailey, have contributed to its
renown in their special departments.  But it has never wanted the
first pens for occasional assistance.  Its private information is
inexplicable, and recalls the stories of Fouche's police, whose
omniscience made it believed that the Empress Josephine must be in
his pay.  It has mercantile and political correspondents in every
foreign city; and its expresses outrun the despatches of the
government.  One hears anecdotes of the rise of its servants, as of
the functionaries of the India House.  I was told of the dexterity of
one of its reporters, who, finding himself, on one occasion, where
the magistrates had strictly forbidden reporters, put his hands into
his coat-pocket, and with pencil in one hand, and tablet in the
other, did his work.
