
 
        We came to Wilton and to Wilton Hall, -- the renowned seat of
the Earls of Pembroke, a house known to Shakspeare and Massinger, the
frequent home of Sir Philip Sidney where he wrote the Arcadia; where
he conversed with Lord Brooke, a man of deep thought, and a poet, who
caused to be engraved on his tombstone, "Here lies Fulke Greville
Lord Brooke, the friend of Sir Philip Sidney." It is now the property
of the Earl of Pembroke, and the residence of his brother, Sidney
Herbert, Esq., and is esteemed a noble specimen of the English
manor-hall.  My friend had a letter from Mr. Herbert to his
housekeeper, and the house was shown.  The state drawing-room is a
double cube, 30 feet high, by 30 feet wide, by 60 feet long: the
adjoining room is a single cube, of 30 feet every way.  Although
these apartments and the long library were full of good family
portraits, Vandykes and other; and though there were some good
pictures, and a quadrangle cloister full of antique and modern
statuary, -- to which C., catalogue in hand, did all too much
justice, -- yet the eye was still drawn to the windows, to a
magnificent lawn, on which grew the finest cedars in England.  I had
not seen more charming grounds.  We went out, and walked over the
estate.  We crossed a bridge built by Inigo Jones over a stream, of
which the gardener did not know the name, (_Qu_. Alph?) watched the
deer; climbed to the lonely sculptured summer house, on a hill backed
by a wood; came down into the Italian garden, and into a French
pavilion, garnished with French busts; and so again, to the house,
where we found a table laid for us with bread, meats, peaches,
grapes, and wine.
        On leaving Wilton House, we took the coach for Salisbury.  The
Cathedral, which was finished 600 years ago, has even a spruce and
modern air, and its spire is the highest in England.  I know not why,
but I had been more struck with one of no fame at Coventry, which
rises 300 feet from the ground, with the lightness of a
mullein-plant, and not at all implicated with the church.  Salisbury
is now esteemed the culmination of the Gothic art in England, as the
buttresses are fully unmasked, and honestly detailed from the sides
of the pile.  The interior of the Cathedral is obstructed by the
organ in the middle, acting like a screen.  I know not why in real
architecture the hunger of the eye for length of line is so rarely
gratified.  The rule of art is that a colonnade is more beautiful the
longer it is, and that _ad infinitum_.  And the nave of a church is
seldom so long that it need be divided by a screen.
        We loitered in the church, outside the choir, whilst service
was said.  Whilst we listened to the organ, my friend remarked, the
music is good, and yet not quite religious, but somewhat as if a monk
were panting to some fine Queen of Heaven.  C. was unwilling, and we
did not ask to have the choir shown us, but returned to our inn,
after seeing another old church of the place.  We passed in the train
Clarendon Park, but could see little but the edge of a wood, though
C. had wished to pay closer attention to the birthplace of the
Decrees of Clarendon.  At Bishopstoke we stopped, and found Mr. H.,
who received us in his carriage, and took us to his house at Bishops
Waltham.
        On Sunday, we had much discourse on a very rainy day.  My
friends asked, whether there were any Americans? -- any with an
American idea, -- any theory of the right future of that country?
Thus challenged, I bethought myself neither of caucuses nor congress,
neither of presidents nor of cabinet-ministers, nor of such as would
make of America another Europe.  I thought only of the simplest and
purest minds; I said, `Certainly yes; -- but those who hold it are
fanatics of a dream which I should hardly care to relate to your
English ears, to which it might be only ridiculous, -- and yet it is
the only true.' So I opened the dogma of no-government and
non-resistance, and anticipated the objections and the fun, and
procured a kind of hearing for it.  I said, it is true that I have
never seen in any country a man of sufficient valor to stand for this
truth, and yet it is plain to me, that no less valor than this can
command my respect.  I can easily see the bankruptcy of the vulgar
musket-worship, -- though great men be musket-worshippers; -- and
'tis certain, as God liveth, the gun that does not need another gun,
the law of love and justice alone, can effect a clean revolution.  I
fancied that one or two of my anecdotes made some impression on C.,
and I insisted, that the manifest absurdity of the view to English
feasibility could make no difference to a gentleman; that as to our
secure tenure of our mutton-chop and spinage in London or in Boston,
the soul might quote Talleyrand, _"Monsieur, je n'en_ _vois pas la
necessite."_ (* 2) As I had thus taken in the conversation the
saint's part, when dinner was announced, C.  refused to go out before
me, -- "he was altogether too wicked." I planted my back against the
wall, and our host wittily rescued us from the dilemma, by saying, he
was the wickedest, and would walk out first, then C. followed, and I
went last.
        (* 2) _"Mais, Monseigneur, il faut que j'existe."_
        On the way to Winchester, whither our host accompanied us in
the afternoon, my friends asked many questions respecting American
landscape, forests, houses, -- my house, for example.  It is not easy
to answer these queries well.  There I thought, in America, lies
nature sleeping, over-growing, almost conscious, too much by half for
man in the picture, and so giving a certain _tristesse_, like the
rank vegetation of swamps and forests seen at night, steeped in dews
and rains, which it loves; and on it man seems not able to make much
impression.  There, in that great sloven continent, in high Alleghany
pastures, in the sea-wide, sky-skirted prairie, still sleeps and
murmurs and hides the great mother, long since driven away from the
trim hedge-rows and over-cultivated garden of England.  And, in
England, I am quite too sensible of this.  Every one is on his good
behavior, and must be dressed for dinner at six.  So I put off my
friends with very inadequate details, as best I could.
        Just before entering Winchester, we stopped at the Church of Saint
Cross, and, after looking through the quaint antiquity, we demanded a piece
of bread and a draught of beer, which the founder, Henry de Blois, in 1136,
commanded should be given to every one who should ask it at the gate.  We had
both, from the old couple who take care of the church.  Some twenty people,
every day, they said, make the same demand.  This hospitality of seven
hundred years' standing did not hinder C. from pronouncing a malediction on
the priest who receives 2000 pounds a year, that were meant for the poor, and
spends a pittance on this small beer and crumbs.
        In the Cathedral, I was gratified, at least by the ample
dimensions.  The length of line exceeds that of any other English
church; being 556 feet by 250 in breadth of transept.  I think I
prefer this church to all I have seen, except Westminster and York.
Here was Canute buried, and here Alfred the Great was crowned and
buried, and here the Saxon kings: and, later, in his own church,
William of Wykeham.  It is very old: part of the crypt into which we
went down and saw the Saxon and Norman arches of the old church on
which the present stands, was built fourteen or fifteen hundred years
ago.  Sharon Turner says, "Alfred was buried at Winchester, in the
Abbey he had founded there, but his remains were removed by Henry I.
to the new Abbey in the meadows at Hyde, on the northern quarter of
the city, and laid under the high altar.  The building was destroyed
at the Reformation, and what is left of Alfred's body now lies
covered by modern buildings, or buried in the ruins of the old."  (*
3) William of Wykeham's shrine tomb was unlocked for us, and C. took
hold of the recumbent statue's marble hands, and patted them
affectionately, for he rightly values the brave man who built
Windsor, and this Cathedral, and the School here, and New College at
Oxford.  But it was growing late in the afternoon.  Slowly we left
the old house, and parting with our host, we took the train for
London.
