
        Neither do this people appear to be of one stem; but
collectively a better race than any from which they are derived.  Nor
is it easy to trace it home to its original seats.  Who can call by
right names what races are in Britain?  Who can trace them
historically?  Who can discriminate them anatomically, or
metaphysically?
        In the impossibility of arriving at satisfaction on the
historical question of race, and, -- come of whatever disputable
ancestry, -- the indisputable Englishman before me, himself very well
marked, and nowhere else to be found, -- I fancied I could leave
quite aside the choice of a tribe as his lineal progenitors.  Defoe
said in his wrath, "the Englishman was the mud of all races." I
incline to the belief, that, as water, lime, and sand make mortar, so
certain temperaments marry well, and, by well-managed contrarieties,
develop as drastic a character as the English.  On the whole, it is
not so much a history of one or of certain tribes of Saxons, Jutes,
or Frisians, coming from one place, and genetically identical, as it
is an anthology of temperaments out of them all.  Certain
temperaments suit the sky and soil of England, say eight or ten or
twenty varieties, as, out of a hundred pear-trees, eight or ten suit
the soil of an orchard, and thrive, whilst all the unadapted
temperaments die out.
        The English derive their pedigree from such a range of
nationalities, that there needs sea-room and land-room to unfold the
varieties of talent and character.  Perhaps the ocean serves as a
galvanic battery to distribute acids at one pole, and alkalies at the
other.  So England tends to accumulate her liberals in America, and
her conservatives at London.  The Scandinavians in her race still
hear in every age the murmurs of their mother, the ocean; the Briton
in the blood hugs the homestead still.
        Again, as if to intensate the influences that are not of race,
what we think of when we talk of English traits really narrows itself
to a small district.  It excludes Ireland, and Scotland, and Wales,
and reduces itself at last to London, that is, to those who come and
go thither.  The portraits that hang on the walls in the Academy
Exhibition at London, the figures in Punch's drawings of the public
men, or of the club-houses, the prints in the shop-windows, are
distinctive English, and not American, no, nor Scotch, nor Irish: but
'tis a very restricted nationality.  As you go north into the
manufacturing and agricultural districts, and to the population that
never travels, as you go into Yorkshire, as you enter Scotland, the
world's Englishman is no longer found.  In Scotland, there is a rapid
loss of all grandeur of mien and manners; a provincial eagerness and
acuteness appear; the poverty of the country makes itself remarked,
and a coarseness of manners; and, among the intellectual, is the
insanity of dialectics.  In Ireland, are the same climate and soil as
in England, but less food, no right relation to the land, political
dependence, small tenantry, and an inferior or misplaced race.
        These queries concerning ancestry and blood may be well
allowed, for there is no prosperity that seems more to depend on the
kind of man than British prosperity.  Only a hardy and wise people
could have made this small territory great.  We say, in a regatta or
yacht-race, that if the boats are anywhere nearly matched, it is the
man that wins.  Put the best sailing master into either boat, and he
will win.
        Yet it is fine for us to speculate in face of unbroken
traditions, though vague, and losing themselves in fable.  The
traditions have got footing, and refuse to be disturbed.  The
kitchen-clock is more convenient than sidereal time.  We must use the
popular category, as we do by the Linnaean classification, for
convenience, and not as exact and final.  Otherwise, we are presently
confounded, when the best settled traits of one race are claimed by
some new ethnologist as precisely characteristic of the rival tribe.
        I found plenty of well-marked English types, the ruddy
complexion fair and plump, robust men, with faces cut like a die, and
a strong island speech and accent; a Norman type, with the
complacency that belongs to that constitution.  Others, who might be
Americans, for any thing that appeared in their complexion or form:
and their speech was much less marked, and their thought much less
bound.  We will call them Saxons.  Then the Roman has implanted his
dark complexion in the trinity or quaternity of bloods.
        1. The sources from which tradition derives their stock are
mainly three.  And, first, they are of the oldest blood of the world,
-- the Celtic.  Some peoples are deciduous or transitory.  Where are
the Greeks? where the Etrurians? where the Romans?  But the Celts or
Sidonides are an old family, of whose beginning there is no memory,
and their end is likely to be still more remote in the future; for
they have endurance and productiveness.  They planted Britain, and
gave to the seas and mountains names which are poems, and imitate the
pure voices of nature.  They are favorably remembered in the oldest
records of Europe.  They had no violent feudal tenure, but the
husbandman owned the land.  They had an alphabet, astronomy, priestly
culture, and a sublime creed.  They have a hidden and precarious
genius.  They made the best popular literature of the middle ages in
the songs of Merlin, and the tender and delicious mythology of
Arthur.
