
     "Of all our valiant English, there were but thirty-four,
      And of the rebel Indians, there were about four-score;
      And sixteen of our English did safely home return,
      The rest were killed and wounded, for which we all must mourn.
     "Our worthy Capt.  Lovewell among them there did die,
      They killed Lieut.  Robbins, and wounded good young Frye,
      Who was our English Chaplin; he many Indians slew,
      And some of them he scalped while bullets round him flew."
Our brave forefathers have exterminated all the Indians, and
their degenerate children no longer dwell in garrisoned houses
nor hear any war-whoop in their path.  It would be well,
perchance, if many an "English Chaplin" in these days could
exhibit as unquestionable trophies of his valor as did "good
young Frye."  We have need to be as sturdy pioneers still as
Miles Standish, or Church, or Lovewell.  We are to follow on
another trail, it is true, but one as convenient for ambushes.
What if the Indians are exterminated, are not savages as grim
prowling about the clearings to-day?--
     "And braving many dangers and hardships in the way,
     They safe arrived at Dunstable the thirteenth (?) day of May."
But they did not all "safe arrive in Dunstable the thirteenth,"
or the fifteenth, or the thirtieth "day of May."  Eleazer Davis
and Josiah Jones, both of Concord, for our native town had seven
men in this fight, Lieutenant Farwell, of Dunstable, and Jonathan
Frye, of Andover, who were all wounded, were left behind,
creeping toward the settlements.  "After travelling several
miles, Frye was left and lost," though a more recent poet has
assigned him company in his last hours.
     "A man he was of comely form,
       Polished and brave, well learned and kind;
     Old Harvard's learned halls he left
       Far in the wilds a grave to find.
     "Ah! now his blood-red arm he lifts;
       His closing lids he tries to raise;
     And speak once more before he dies,
       In supplication and in praise.
     "He prays kind Heaven to grant success,
       Brave Lovewell's men to guide and bless,
     And when they've shed their heart-blood true,
       To raise them all to happiness."
           *   *   *   *   *
     "Lieutenant Farwell took his hand,
       His arm around his neck he threw,
     And said, `Brave Chaplain, I could wish
       That Heaven had made me die for you.'"
           *   *   *   *   *
Farwell held out eleven days.  "A tradition says," as we learn
from the History of Concord, "that arriving at a pond with
Lieut. Farwell, Davis pulled off one of his moccasins, cut it in
strings, on which he fastened a hook, caught some fish, fried and
ate them.  They refreshed him, but were injurious to Farwell, who
died soon after."  Davis had a ball lodged in his body, and his
right hand shot off; but on the whole, he seems to have been less
damaged than his companion.  He came into Berwick after being out
fourteen days.  Jones also had a ball lodged in his body, but he
likewise got into Saco after fourteen days, though not in the
best condition imaginable.  "He had subsisted," says an old
journal, "on the spontaneous vegetables of the forest; and
cranberries which he had eaten came out of wounds he had received
in his body."  This was also the case with Davis.  The last two
reached home at length, safe if not sound, and lived many years
in a crippled state to enjoy their pension.
But alas! of the crippled Indians, and their adventures in the
woods,--
     "For as we are informed, so thick and fast they fell,
     Scarce twenty of their number at night did get home well,"--
how many balls lodged with them, how fared their cranberries,
what Berwick or Saco they got into, and finally what pension or
township was granted them, there is no journal to tell.
It is stated in the History of Dunstable, that just before his
last march, Lovewell was warned to beware of the ambuscades of
the enemy, but "he replied, `that he did not care for them,' and
bending down a small elm beside which he was standing into a bow,
declared `that he would treat the Indians in the same way.' This
elm is still standing [in Nashua], a venerable and magnificent
tree."
Meanwhile, having passed the Horseshoe Interval in Tyngsborough,
where the river makes a sudden bend to the northwest,--for our
reflections have anticipated our progress somewhat,--we were
advancing farther into the country and into the day, which last
proved almost as golden as the preceding, though the slight
bustle and activity of the Monday seemed to penetrate even to
this scenery.  Now and then we had to muster all our energy to get
round a point, where the river broke rippling over rocks, and the
maples trailed their branches in the stream, but there was
generally a backwater or eddy on the side, of which we took
advantage.  The river was here about forty rods wide and fifteen
feet deep.  Occasionally one ran along the shore, examining the
country, and visiting the nearest farm-houses, while the other
followed the windings of the stream alone, to meet his companion
at some distant point, and hear the report of his adventures; how
the farmer praised the coolness of his well, and his wife offered
the stranger a draught of milk, or the children quarrelled for
the only transparency in the window that they might get sight of
the man at the well.  For though the country seemed so new, and no
house was observed by us, shut in between the banks that sunny
day, we did not have to travel far to find where men inhabited,
like wild bees, and had sunk wells in the loose sand and loam of
the Merrimack.  There dwelt the subject of the Hebrew scriptures,
and the Esprit des Lois, where a thin vaporous smoke curled up
through the noon.  All that is told of mankind, of the inhabitants
of the Upper Nile, and the Sunderbunds, and Timbuctoo, and the
Orinoko, was experience here.  Every race and class of men was
represented.  According to Belknap, the historian of New Hampshire,
who wrote sixty years ago, here too, perchance, dwelt "new lights,"
and free thinking men even then.  "The people in general throughout
the State," it is written, "are professors of the Christian
religion in some form or other.  There is, however, a sort of
_wise men_ who pretend to reject it; but they have not yet been
able to substitute a better in its place."
The other voyageur, perhaps, would in the mean while have seen
a brown hawk, or a woodchuck, or a musquash creeping under the
alders.
We occasionally rested in the shade of a maple or a willow, and
drew forth a melon for our refreshment, while we contemplated at
our leisure the lapse of the river and of human life; and as that
current, with its floating twigs and leaves, so did all things
pass in review before us, while far away in cities and marts on
this very stream, the old routine was proceeding still.  There
is, indeed, a tide in the affairs of men, as the poet says, and
yet as things flow they circulate, and the ebb always balances
the flow.  All streams are but tributary to the ocean, which
itself does not stream, and the shores are unchanged, but in
longer periods than man can measure.  Go where we will, we
discover infinite change in particulars only, not in generals.
When I go into a museum and see the mummies wrapped in their
linen bandages, I see that the lives of men began to need reform
as long ago as when they walked the earth.  I come out into the
streets, and meet men who declare that the time is near at hand
for the redemption of the race.  But as men lived in Thebes, so
do they live in Dunstable to-day.  "Time drinketh up the essence
of every great and noble action which ought to be performed, and
is delayed in the execution." So says Veeshnoo Sarma; and we
perceive that the schemers return again and again to common sense
and labor.  Such is the evidence of history.
   "Yet I doubt not through the ages one increasing purpose runs,
   And the thoughts of men are widened with the process of the Suns."
There are secret articles in our treaties with the gods, of more
importance than all the rest, which the historian can never know.
There are many skilful apprentices, but few master workmen.  On
every hand we observe a truly wise practice, in education, in
morals, and in the arts of life, the embodied wisdom of many an
ancient philosopher.  Who does not see that heresies have some
time prevailed, that reforms have already taken place?  All this
worldly wisdom might be regarded as the once unamiable heresy of
some wise man.  Some interests have got a footing on the earth
which we have not made sufficient allowance for.  Even they who
first built these barns and cleared the land thus, had some
valor.  The abrupt epochs and chasms are smoothed down in history
as the inequalities of the plain are concealed by distance.  But
unless we do more than simply learn the trade of our time, we are
but apprentices, and not yet masters of the art of life.
Now that we are casting away these melon seeds, how can we help
feeling reproach?  He who eats the fruit, should at least plant
the seed; aye, if possible, a better seed than that whose fruit
he has enjoyed.  Seeds!  there are seeds enough which need only
to be stirred in with the soil where they lie, by an inspired
voice or pen, to bear fruit of a divine flavor.  O thou
spendthrift!  Defray thy debt to the world; eat not the seed of
institutions, as the luxurious do, but plant it rather, while
thou devourest the pulp and tuber for thy subsistence; that so,
perchance, one variety may at last be found worthy of
preservation.
There are moments when all anxiety and stated toil are becalmed
in the infinite leisure and repose of nature.  All laborers must
have their nooning, and at this season of the day, we are all,
more or less, Asiatics, and give over all work and reform.  While
lying thus on our oars by the side of the stream, in the heat of
the day, our boat held by an osier put through the staple in its
prow, and slicing the melons, which are a fruit of the East, our
thoughts reverted to Arabia, Persia, and Hindostan, the lands of
contemplation and dwelling-places of the ruminant nations.  In
the experience of this noontide we could find some apology even
for the instinct of the opium, betel, and tobacco chewers.  Mount
Saber, according to the French traveller and naturalist, Botta,
is celebrated for producing the Kat-tree, of which "the soft tops
of the twigs and tender leaves are eaten," says his reviewer,
"and produce an agreeable soothing excitement, restoring from
fatigue, banishing sleep, and disposing to the enjoyment of
conversation."  We thought that we might lead a dignified
Oriental life along this stream as well, and the maple and alders
would be our Kat-trees.
It is a great pleasure to escape sometimes from the restless
class of Reformers.  What if these grievances exist?  So do you
and I.  Think you that sitting hens are troubled with ennui these
long summer days, sitting on and on in the crevice of a hay-loft,
without active employment?  By the faint cackling in distant
barns, I judge that dame Nature is interested still to know how
many eggs her hens lay.  The Universal Soul, as it is called, has
an interest in the stacking of hay, the foddering of cattle, and
the draining of peat-meadows.  Away in Scythia, away in India, it
makes butter and cheese.  Suppose that all farms _are_ run out,
and we youths must buy old land and bring it to, still everywhere
the relentless opponents of reform bear a strange resemblance to
ourselves; or, perchance, they are a few old maids and bachelors,
who sit round the kitchen hearth and listen to the singing of the
kettle.  "The oracles often give victory to our choice, and not
to the order alone of the mundane periods.  As, for instance,
when they say that our voluntary sorrows germinate in us as the
growth of the particular life we lead." The reform which you talk
about can be undertaken any morning before unbarring our doors.
We need not call any convention.  When two neighbors begin to eat
corn bread, who before ate wheat, then the gods smile from ear to
ear, for it is very pleasant to them.  Why do you not try it?
Don't let me hinder you.
There are theoretical reformers at all times, and all the world
over, living on anticipation.  Wolff, travelling in the deserts
of Bokhara, says, "Another party of derveeshes came to me and
observed, `The time will come when there shall be no difference
between rich and poor, between high and low, when property will
be in common, even wives and children.'" But forever I ask of
such, What then?  The derveeshes in the deserts of Bokhara and
the reformers in Marlboro' Chapel sing the same song.  "There's a
good time coming, boys," but, asked one of the audience, in good
faith, "Can you fix the date?" Said I, "Will you help it along?"
