
The nonchalance and _dolce-far-niente_ air of nature and society
hint at infinite periods in the progress of mankind.  The States
have leisure to laugh from Maine to Texas at some newspaper joke,
and New England shakes at the double-entendres of Australian
circles, while the poor reformer cannot get a hearing.
Men do not fail commonly for want of knowledge, but for want of
prudence to give wisdom the preference.  What we need to know in
any case is very simple.  It is but too easy to establish another
durable and harmonious routine.  Immediately all parts of nature
consent to it.  Only make something to take the place of something,
and men will behave as if it was the very thing they wanted.
They _must_ behave, at any rate, and will work up any material.
There is always a present and extant life, be it better or worse,
which all combine to uphold.  We should be slow to mend, my
friends, as slow to require mending, "Not hurling, according to
the oracle, a transcendent foot towards piety."  The language of
excitement is at best picturesque merely.  You must be calm
before you can utter oracles.  What was the excitement of the
Delphic priestess compared with the calm wisdom of Socrates?--or
whoever it was that was wise.--Enthusiasm is a supernatural
serenity.
     "Men find that action is another thing
       Than what they in discoursing papers read;
     The world's affairs require in managing
       More arts than those wherein you clerks proceed."
As in geology, so in social institutions, we may discover the
causes of all past change in the present invariable order of
society.  The greatest appreciable physical revolutions are the
work of the light-footed air, the stealthy-paced water, and the
subterranean fire.  Aristotle said, "As time never fails, and the
universe is eternal, neither the Tanais nor the Nile can have
flowed forever." We are independent of the change we detect.
The longer the lever the less perceptible its motion.  It is the
slowest pulsation which is the most vital.  The hero then will
know how to wait, as well as to make haste.  All good abides with
him who waiteth _wisely_; we shall sooner overtake the dawn by
remaining here than by hurrying over the hills of the west.  Be
assured that every man's success is in proportion to his
_average_ ability.  The meadow flowers spring and bloom where the
waters annually deposit their slime, not where they reach in some
freshet only.  A man is not his hope, nor his despair, nor yet
his past deed.  We know not yet what we have done, still less
what we are doing.  Wait till evening, and other parts of our
day's work will shine than we had thought at noon, and we shall
discover the real purport of our toil.  As when the farmer has
reached the end of the furrow and looks back, he can tell best
where the pressed earth shines most.
To one who habitually endeavors to contemplate the true state
of things, the political state can hardly be said to have any
existence whatever.  It is unreal, incredible, and insignificant
to him, and for him to endeavor to extract the truth from such
lean material is like making sugar from linen rags, when
sugar-cane may be had.  Generally speaking, the political news,
whether domestic or foreign, might be written to-day for the next
ten years, with sufficient accuracy.  Most revolutions in society
have not power to interest, still less alarm us; but tell me that
our rivers are drying up, or the genus pine dying out in the
country, and I might attend.  Most events recorded in history are
more remarkable than important, like eclipses of the sun and
moon, by which all are attracted, but whose effects no one takes
the trouble to calculate.
But will the government never be so well administered, inquired
one, that we private men shall hear nothing about it?  "The king
answered: At all events, I require a prudent and able man, who
is capable of managing the state affairs of my kingdom.  The
ex-minister said: The criterion, O Sire! of a wise and competent
man is, that he will not meddle with such like matters."  Alas
that the ex-minister should have been so nearly right!
In my short experience of human life, the _outward_ obstacles,
if there were any such, have not been living men, but the
institutions of the dead.  It is grateful to make one's way
through this latest generation as through dewy grass.  Men are
as innocent as the morning to the unsuspicious.
     "And round about good morrows fly,
     As if day taught humanity."
Not being Reve of this Shire,
     "The early pilgrim blithe he hailed,
     That o'er the hills did stray,
     And many an early husbandman,
     That he met on the way";--
thieves and robbers all, nevertheless.  I have not so surely
foreseen that any Cossack or Chippeway would come to disturb the
honest and simple commonwealth, as that some monster institution
would at length embrace and crush its free members in its scaly
folds; for it is not to be forgotten, that while the law holds
fast the thief and murderer, it lets itself go loose.  When I
have not paid the tax which the State demanded for that
protection which I did not want, itself has robbed me; when I
have asserted the liberty it presumed to declare, itself has
imprisoned me.  Poor creature! if it knows no better I will not
blame it.  If it cannot live but by these means, I can.  I do not
wish, it happens, to be associated with Massachusetts, either in
holding slaves or in conquering Mexico.  I am a little better
than herself in these respects.--As for Massachusetts, that huge
she Briareus, Argus and Colchian Dragon conjoined, set to watch
the Heifer of the Constitution and the Golden Fleece, we would
not warrant our respect for her, like some compositions, to
preserve its qualities through all weathers.--Thus it has
happened, that not the Arch Fiend himself has been in my way, but
these toils which tradition says were originally spun to obstruct
him.  They are cobwebs and trifling obstacles in an earnest man's
path, it is true, and at length one even becomes attached to his
unswept and undusted garret.  I love man--kind, but I hate the
institutions of the dead un-kind.  Men execute nothing so
faithfully as the wills of the dead, to the last codicil and
letter.  _They_ rule this world, and the living are but their
executors.  Such foundation too have our lectures and our
sermons, commonly.  They are all _Dudleian;_ and piety derives
its origin still from that exploit of _pius Aeneas_, who bore his
father, Anchises, on his shoulders from the ruins of Troy.  Or
rather, like some Indian tribes, we bear about with us the
mouldering relics of our ancestors on our shoulders.  If, for
instance, a man asserts the value of individual liberty over the
merely political commonweal, his neighbor still tolerates him,
that he who is _living near_ him, sometimes even sustains him,
but never the State.  Its officer, as a living man, may have
human virtues and a thought in his brain, but as the tool of an
institution, a jailer or constable it may be, he is not a whit
superior to his prison key or his staff.  Herein is the tragedy;
that men doing outrage to their proper natures, even those called
wise and good, lend themselves to perform the office of inferior
and brutal ones.  Hence come war and slavery in; and what else
may not come in by this opening?  But certainly there are modes
by which a man may put bread into his mouth which will not
prejudice him as a companion and neighbor.
     "Now turn again, turn again, said the pinder,
     For a wrong way you have gone,
     For you have forsaken the king's highway,
     And made a path over the corn."
Undoubtedly, countless reforms are called for, because society is
not animated, or instinct enough with life, but in the condition
of some snakes which I have seen in early spring, with alternate
portions of their bodies torpid and flexible, so that they could
wriggle neither way.  All men are partially buried in the grave
of custom, and of some we see only the crown of the head above
ground.  Better are the physically dead, for they more lively
rot.  Even virtue is no longer such if it be stagnant.  A man's
life should be constantly as fresh as this river.  It should be
the same channel, but a new water every instant.
               "Virtues as rivers pass,
     But still remains that virtuous man there was."
Most men have no inclination, no rapids, no cascades, but
marshes, and alligators, and miasma instead.  We read that when
in the expedition of Alexander, Onesicritus was sent forward to
meet certain of the Indian sect of Gymnosophists, and he had told
them of those new philosophers of the West, Pythagoras, Socrates,
and Diogenes, and their doctrines, one of them named Dandamis
answered, that "They appeared to him to have been men of genius,
but to have lived with too passive a regard for the laws." The
philosophers of the West are liable to this rebuke still.  "They
say that Lieou-hia-hoei, and Chao-lien did not sustain to the end
their resolutions, and that they dishonored their character.
Their language was in harmony with reason and justice; while
their acts were in harmony with the sentiments of men."
Chateaubriand said: "There are two things which grow stronger in
the breast of man, in proportion as he advances in years: the
love of country and religion.  Let them be never so much
forgotten in youth, they sooner or later present themselves to us
arrayed in all their charms, and excite in the recesses of our
hearts an attachment justly due to their beauty." It may be so.
But even this infirmity of noble minds marks the gradual decay of
youthful hope and faith.  It is the allowed infidelity of age.
There is a saying of the Yoloffs, "He who was born first has the
greatest number of old clothes," consequently M.  Chateaubriand
has more old clothes than I have.  It is comparatively a faint
and reflected beauty that is admired, not an essential and
intrinsic one.  It is because the old are weak, feel their
mortality, and think that they have measured the strength of man.
They will not boast; they will be frank and humble.  Well, let
them have the few poor comforts they can keep.  Humility is still
a very human virtue.  They look back on life, and so see not into
the future.  The prospect of the young is forward and unbounded,
mingling the future with the present.  In the declining day the
thoughts make haste to rest in darkness, and hardly look forward
to the ensuing morning.  The thoughts of the old prepare for
night and slumber.  The same hopes and prospects are not for him
who stands upon the rosy mountain-tops of life, and him who
expects the setting of his earthly day.
I must conclude that Conscience, if that be the name of it, was
not given us for no purpose, or for a hinderance.  However
flattering order and expediency may look, it is but the repose of
a lethargy, and we will choose rather to be awake, though it be
stormy, and maintain ourselves on this earth and in this life, as
we may, without signing our death-warrant.  Let us see if we
cannot stay here, where He has put us, on his own
conditions.  Does not his law reach as far as his light?  The
expedients of the nations clash with one another, only the
absolutely right is expedient for all.
There are some passages in the Antigone of Sophocles, well known
to scholars, of which I am reminded in this connection.  Antigone
has resolved to sprinkle sand on the dead body of her brother
Polynices, notwithstanding the edict of King Creon condemning to
death that one who should perform this service, which the Greeks
deemed so important, for the enemy of his country; but Ismene,
who is of a less resolute and noble spirit, declines taking part
with her sister in this work, and says,--
"I, therefore, asking those under the earth to consider me, that
I am compelled to do thus, will obey those who are placed in
office; for to do extreme things is not wise."
                           ANTIGONE
"I would not ask you, nor would you, if you still wished, do it
joyfully with me.  Be such as seems good to you.  But I will bury
him.  It is glorious for me doing this to die.  I beloved will
lie with him beloved, having, like a criminal, done what is holy;
since the time is longer which it is necessary for me to please
those below, than those here, for there I shall always lie.  But
if it seems good to you, hold in dishonor things which are
honored by the gods."
                            ISMENE
"I indeed do not hold them in dishonor; but to act in opposition
to the citizens I am by nature unable."
