
Antigone being at length brought before King Creon, he asks,--
"Did you then dare to transgress these laws?"
                            ANTIGONE
"For it was not Zeus who proclaimed these to me, nor Justice who
dwells with the gods below; it was not they who established these
laws among men.  Nor did I think that your proclamations were so
strong, as, being a mortal, to be able to transcend the unwritten
and immovable laws of the gods.  For not something now and
yesterday, but forever these live, and no one knows from what
time they appeared.  I was not about to pay the penalty of
violating these to the gods, fearing the presumption of any man.
For I well knew that I should die, and why not? even if you had
not proclaimed it."
This was concerning the burial of a dead body.
The wisest conservatism is that of the Hindoos.  "Immemorial
custom is transcendent law," says Menu.  That is, it was the
custom of the gods before men used it.  The fault of our New
England custom is that it is memorial.  What is morality but
immemorial custom?  Conscience is the chief of conservatives.
"Perform the settled functions," says Kreeshna in the
Bhagvat-Geeta; "action is preferable to inaction.  The journey of
thy mortal frame may not succeed from inaction."--"A man's own
calling with all its faults, ought not to be forsaken.  Every
undertaking is involved in its faults as the fire in its
smoke."--"The man who is acquainted with the whole, should not
drive those from their works who are slow of comprehension, and
less experienced than himself."--"Wherefore, O Arjoon, resolve to
fight," is the advice of the God to the irresolute soldier who
fears to slay his best friends.  It is a sublime conservatism; as
wide as the world, and as unwearied as time; preserving the
universe with Asiatic anxiety, in that state in which it appeared
to their minds.  These philosophers dwell on the inevitability
and unchangeableness of laws, on the power of temperament and
constitution, the three goon or qualities, and the circumstances
of birth and affinity.  The end is an immense consolation;
eternal absorption in Brahma.  Their speculations never venture
beyond their own table-lands, though they are high and vast as
they.  Buoyancy, freedom, flexibility, variety, possibility,
which also are qualities of the Unnamed, they deal not with.  The
undeserved reward is to be earned by an everlasting moral
drudgery; the incalculable promise of the morrow is, as it were,
weighed.  And who will say that their conservatism has not been
effectual?  "Assuredly," says a French translator, speaking of
the antiquity and durability of the Chinese and Indian nations,
and of the wisdom of their legislators, "there are there some
vestiges of the eternal laws which govern the world."
Christianity, on the other hand, is humane, practical, and, in a
large sense, radical.  So many years and ages of the gods those
Eastern sages sat contemplating Brahm, uttering in silence the
mystic "Om," being absorbed into the essence of the Supreme
Being, never going out of themselves, but subsiding farther and
deeper within; so infinitely wise, yet infinitely stagnant;
until, at last, in that same Asia, but in the western part of it,
appeared a youth, wholly unforetold by them,--not being absorbed
into Brahm, but bringing Brahm down to earth and to mankind; in
whom Brahm had awaked from his long sleep, and exerted himself,
and the day began,--a new avatar.  The Brahman had never thought
to be a brother of mankind as well as a child of God.  Christ is
the prince of Reformers and Radicals.  Many expressions in the
New Testament come naturally to the lips of all Protestants, and
it furnishes the most pregnant and practical texts.  There is no
harmless dreaming, no wise speculation in it, but everywhere a
substratum of good sense.  It never _reflects_, but it _repents_.
There is no poetry in it, we may say nothing regarded in the
light of beauty merely, but moral truth is its object.  All
mortals are convicted by its conscience.
The New Testament is remarkable for its pure morality; the best
of the Hindo Scripture, for its pure intellectuality.  The reader
is nowhere raised into and sustained in a higher, purer, or _rarer_
region of thought than in the Bhagvat-Geeta.  Warren Hastings, in
his sensible letter recommending the translation of this book to
the Chairman of the East India Company, declares the original to
be "of a sublimity of conception, reasoning, and diction almost
unequalled," and that the writings of the Indian philosophers
"will survive when the British dominion in India shall have long
ceased to exist, and when the sources which it once yielded of
wealth and power are lost to remembrance." It is unquestionably
one of the noblest and most sacred scriptures which have come
down to us.  Books are to be distinguished by the grandeur of
their topics, even more than by the manner in which they are
treated.  The Oriental philosophy approaches, easily, loftier
themes than the modern aspires to; and no wonder if it sometimes
prattle about them.  _It_ only assigns their due rank respectively
to Action and Contemplation, or rather does full justice to the
latter.  Western philosophers have not conceived of the
significance of Contemplation in their sense.  Speaking of the
spiritual discipline to which the Brahmans subjected themselves,
and the wonderful power of abstraction to which they attained,
instances of which had come under his notice, Hastings says:--
  "To those who have never been accustomed to the separation of
  the mind from the notices of the senses, it may not be easy to
  conceive by what means such a power is to be attained; since
  even the most studious men of our hemisphere will find it
  difficult so to restrain their attention, but that it will
  wander to some object of present sense or recollection; and
  even the buzzing of a fly will sometimes have the power to
  disturb it.  But if we are told that there have been men who
  were successively, for ages past, in the daily habit of
  abstracted contemplation, begun in the earliest period of
  youth, and continued in many to the maturity of age, each
  adding some portion of knowledge to the store accumulated by
  his predecessors; it is not assuming too much to conclude, that
  as the mind ever gathers strength, like the body, by exercise,
  so in such an exercise it may in each have acquired the faculty
  to which they aspired, and that their collective studies may
  have led them to the discovery of new tracts and combinations
  of sentiment, totally different from the doctrines with which
  the learned of other nations are acquainted; doctrines which,
  however speculative and subtle, still as they possess the
  advantage of being derived from a source so free from every
  adventitious mixture, may be equally founded in truth with the
  most simple of our own."
"The forsaking of works" was taught by Kreeshna to the most
ancient of men, and handed down from age to age,
  "until at length, in the course of time, the mighty art was lost.
  "In wisdom is to be found every work without exception," says
  Kreeshna.
  "Although thou wert the greatest of all offenders, thou shalt
  be able to cross the gulf of sin with the bark of wisdom."
  "There is not anything in this world to be compared with wisdom
  for purity."
  "The action stands at a distance inferior to the application of
  wisdom."
  The wisdom of a Moonee "is confirmed, when, like the tortoise,
  he can draw in all his members, and restrain them from their
  wonted purposes."
  "Children only, and not the learned, speak of the speculative
  and the practical doctrines as two.  They are but one.  For
  both obtain the selfsame end, and the place which is gained by
  the followers of the one is gained by the followers of the
  other."
  "The man enjoyeth not freedom from action, from the
  non-commencement of that which he hath to do; nor doth he
  obtain happiness from a total inactivity.  No one ever resteth
  a moment inactive.  Every man is involuntarily urged to act by
  those principles which are inherent in his nature.  The man who
  restraineth his active faculties, and sitteth down with his
  mind attentive to the objects of his senses, is called one of
  an astrayed soul, and the practiser of deceit.  So the man is
  praised, who, having subdued all his passions, performeth with
  his active faculties all the functions of life, unconcerned
  about the event."
  "Let the motive be in the deed and not in the event.  Be not
  one whose motive for action is the hope of reward.  Let not thy
  life be spent in inaction."
  "For the man who doeth that which he hath to do, without
  affection, obtaineth the Supreme."
  "He who may behold, as it were inaction in action, and action
  in inaction, is wise amongst mankind.  He is a perfect
  performer of all duty."
