
  "Wise men call him a _Pandeet_, whose every undertaking is free
  from the idea of desire, and whose actions are consumed by the
  fire of wisdom.  He abandoneth the desire of a reward of his
  actions; he is always contented and independent; and although
  he may be engaged in a work, he, as it were, doeth nothing."
  "He is both a Yogee and a Sannyasee who performeth that which
  he hath to do independent of the fruit thereof; not he who
  liveth without the sacrificial fire and without action."
  "He who enjoyeth but the Amreeta which is left of his
  offerings, obtaineth the eternal spirit of Brahm, the Supreme."
What, after all, does the practicalness of life amount to?  The
things immediate to be done are very trivial.  I could postpone
them all to hear this locust sing.  The most glorious fact in my
experience is not anything that I have done or may hope to do,
but a transient thought, or vision, or dream, which I have had.
I would give all the wealth of the world, and all the deeds of
all the heroes, for one true vision.  But how can I communicate
with the gods who am a pencil-maker on the earth, and not be
insane?
  "I am the same to all mankind," says Kreeshna; "there is not
  one who is worthy of my love or hatred."
This teaching is not practical in the sense in which the New
Testament is.  It is not always sound sense inpractice.  The
Brahman never proposes courageously to assault evil, but
patiently to starve it out.  His active faculties are paralyzed
by the idea of cast, of impassable limits, of destiny and the
tyranny of time.  Kreeshna's argument, it must be allowed, is
defective.  No sufficient reason is given why Arjoon should
fight.  Arjoon may be convinced, but the reader is not, for his
judgment is _not_ "formed upon the speculative doctrines of the
_Sankhya Sastra_."  "Seek an asylum in wisdom alone"; but what is
wisdom to a Western mind?  The duty of which he speaks is an
arbitrary one.  When was it established?  The Brahman's virtue
consists in doing, not right, but arbitrary things.  What is that
which a man "hath to do"?  What is "action"?  What are the
"settled functions"?  What is "a man's own religion," which is so
much better than another's?  What is "a man's own particular
calling"?  What are the duties which are appointed by one's
birth?  It is a defence of the institution of casts, of what is
called the "natural duty" of the Kshetree, or soldier, "to attach
himself to the discipline," "not to flee from the field," and the
like.  But they who are unconcerned about the consequences of
their actions are not therefore unconcerned about their actions.
Behold the difference between the Oriental and the Occidental.
The former has nothing to do in this world; the latter is full of
activity.  The one looks in the sun till his eyes are put out;
the other follows him prone in his westward course.  There is
such a thing as caste, even in the West; but it is comparatively
faint; it is conservatism here.  It says, forsake not your
calling, outrage no institution, use no violence, rend no bonds;
the State is thy parent.  Its virtue or manhood is wholly filial.
There is a struggle between the Oriental and Occidental in every
nation; some who would be forever contemplating the sun, and some
who are hastening toward the sunset.  The former class says to
the latter, When you have reached the sunset, you will be no
nearer to the sun.  To which the latter replies, But we so
prolong the day.  The former "walketh but in that night, when all
things go to rest the night of _time_.  The contemplative Moonee
sleepeth but in the day of _time_, when all things wake."
To conclude these extracts, I can say, in the words of Sanjay,
"As, O mighty Prince!  I recollect again and again this holy and
wonderful dialogue of Kreeshna and Arjoon, I continue more and
more to rejoice; and as I recall to my memory the more than
miraculous form of Haree, my astonishment is great, and I marvel
and rejoice again and again!  Wherever Kreeshna the God of
devotion may be, wherever Arjoon the mighty bowman may be, there
too, without doubt, are fortune, riches, victory, and good
conduct.  This is my firm belief."
I would say to the readers of Scriptures, if they wish for a good
book, read the Bhagvat-Geeta, an episode to the Mahabharat, said
to have been written by Kreeshna Dwypayen Veias,--known to have
been written by----, more than four thousand years ago,--it
matters not whether three or four, or when,--translated by
Charles Wilkins.  It deserves to be read with reverence even by
Yankees, as a part of the sacred writings of a devout people; and
the intelligent Hebrew will rejoice to find in it a moral
grandeur and sublimity akin to those of his own Scriptures.
To an American reader, who, by the advantage of his position, can
see over that strip of Atlantic coast to Asia and the Pacific,
who, as it were, sees the shore slope upward over the Alps to the
Himmaleh Mountains, the comparatively recent literature of Europe
often appears partial and clannish, and, notwithstanding the
limited range of his own sympathies and studies, the European
writer who presumes that he is speaking for the world, is
perceived by him to speak only for that corner of it which he
inhabits.  One of the rarest of England's scholars and critics,
in his classification of the worthies of the world, betrays the
narrowness of his European culture and the exclusiveness of his
reading.  None of her children has done justice to the poets and
philosophers of Persia or of India.  They have even been better
known to her merchant scholars than to her poets and thinkers by
profession.  You may look in vain through English poetry for a
single memorable verse inspired by these themes.  Nor is Germany
to be excepted, though her philological industry is indirectly
serving the cause of philosophy and poetry.  Even Goethe wanted
that universality of genius which could have appreciated the
philosophy of India, if he had more nearly approached it.  His
genius was more practical, dwelling much more in the regions of
the understanding, and was less native to contemplation than the
genius of those sages.  It is remarkable that Homer and a few
Hebrews are the most Oriental names which modern Europe, whose
literature has taken its rise since the decline of the Persian,
has admitted into her list of Worthies, and perhaps the _worthiest_
of mankind, and the fathers of modern thinking,--for the
contemplations of those Indian sages have influenced, and still
influence, the intellectual development of mankind,--whose works
even yet survive in wonderful completeness, are, for the most
part, not recognized as ever having existed.  If the lions had
been the painters it would have been otherwise.  In every one's
youthful dreams philosophy is still vaguely but inseparably, and
with singular truth, associated with the East, nor do after years
discover its local habitation in the Western world.  In comparison
with the philosophers of the East, we may say that modern Europe
has yet given birth to none.  Beside the vast and cosmogonal
philosophy of the Bhagvat-Geeta, even our Shakespeare seems
sometimes youthfully green and practical merely.  Some of these
sublime sentences, as the Chaldaean oracles of Zoroaster, still
surviving after a thousand revolutions and translations, alone
make us doubt if the poetic form and dress are not transitory,
and not essential to the most effective and enduring expression
of thought.  _Ex oriente lux_ may still be the motto of scholars,
for the Western world has not yet derived from the East all the
light which it is destined to receive thence.
It would be worthy of the age to print together the collected
Scriptures or Sacred Writings of the several nations, the
Chinese, the Hindoos, the Persians, the Hebrews, and others, as
the Scripture of mankind.  The New Testament is still, perhaps,
too much on the lips and in the hearts of men to be called a
Scripture in this sense.  Such a juxtaposition and comparison
might help to liberalize the faith of men.  This is a work which
Time will surely edit, reserved to crown the labors of the
printing-press.  This would be the Bible, or Book of Books, which
let the missionaries carry to the uttermost parts of the earth.
While engaged in these reflections, thinking ourselves the only
navigators of these waters, suddenly a canal-boat, with its sail
set, glided round a point before us, like some huge river beast,
and changed the scene in an instant; and then another and another
glided into sight, and we found ourselves in the current of
commerce once more.  So we threw our rinds in the water for the
fishes to nibble, and added our breath to the life of living men.
Little did we think, in the distant garden in which we had
planted the seed and reared this fruit, where it would be eaten.
Our melons lay at home on the sandy bottom of the Merrimack, and
our potatoes in the sun and water at the bottom of the boat
looked like a fruit of the country.  Soon, however, we were
delivered from this fleet of junks, and possessed the river in
solitude, once more rowing steadily upward through the noon,
between the territories of Nashua on the one hand, and Hudson,
once Nottingham, on the other.  From time to time we scared up a
kingfisher or a summer duck, the former flying rather by vigorous
impulses than by steady and patient steering with that short
rudder of his, sounding his rattle along the fluvial street.
Erelong another scow hove in sight, creeping down the river; and
hailing it, we attached ourselves to its side, and floated back
in company, chatting with the boatmen, and obtaining a draught of
cooler water from their jug.  They appeared to be green hands
from far among the hills, who had taken this means to get to the
seaboard, and see the world; and would possibly visit the
Falkland Isles, and the China seas, before they again saw the
waters of the Merrimack, or, perchance, they would not return
this way forever.  They had already embarked the private
interests of the landsman in the larger venture of the race, and
were ready to mess with mankind, reserving only the till of a
chest to themselves.  But they too were soon lost behind a point,
and we went croaking on our way alone.  What grievance has its
root among the New Hampshire hills? we asked; what is wanting to
human life here, that these men should make such haste to the
antipodes?  We prayed that their bright anticipations might not
be rudely disappointed.
     Though all the fates should prove unkind,
     Leave not your native land behind.
     The ship, becalmed, at length stands still;
     The steed must rest beneath the hill;
     But swiftly still our fortunes pace
     To find us out in every place.
     The vessel, though her masts be firm,
     Beneath her copper bears a worm;
     Around the cape, across the line,
     Till fields of ice her course confine;
     It matters not how smooth the breeze,
     How shallow or how deep the seas,
     Whether she bears Manilla twine,
     Or in her hold Madeira wine,
     Or China teas, or Spanish hides,
     In port or quarantine she rides;
     Far from New England's blustering shore,
     New England's worm her hulk shall bore,
     And sink her in the Indian seas,
     Twine, wine, and hides, and China teas.
We passed a small desert here on the east bank, between
Tyngsborough and Hudson, which was interesting and even
refreshing to our eyes in the midst of the almost universal
greenness.  This sand was indeed somewhat impressive and
beautiful to us.  A very old inhabitant, who was at work in a
field on the Nashua side, told us that he remembered when corn
and grain grew there, and it was a cultivated field.  But at
length the fishermen, for this was a fishing place, pulled up the
bushes on the shore, for greater convenience in hauling their
seines, and when the bank was thus broken, the wind began to blow
up the sand from the shore, until at length it had covered about
fifteen acres several feet deep.  We saw near the river, where
the sand was blown off down to some ancient surface, the
foundation of an Indian wigwam exposed, a perfect circle of burnt
stones, four or five feet in diameter, mingled with fine
charcoal, and the bones of small animals which had been preserved
in the sand.  The surrounding sand was sprinkled with other burnt
stones on which their fires had been built, as well as with
flakes of arrow-head stone, and we found one perfect arrow-head.
In one place we noticed where an Indian had sat to manufacture
arrow-heads out of quartz, and the sand was sprinkled with a
quart of small glass-like chips about as big as a fourpence,
which he had broken off in his work.  Here, then, the Indians
must have fished before the whites arrived.  There was another
similar sandy tract about half a mile above this.
Still the noon prevailed, and we turned the prow aside to bathe,
and recline ourselves under some buttonwoods, by a ledge of
rocks, in a retired pasture sloping to the water's edge, and
skirted with pines and hazels, in the town of Hudson.  Still had
India, and that old noontide philosophy, the better part of our
thoughts.
It is always singular, but encouraging, to meet with common sense
in very old books, as the Heetopades of Veeshnoo Sarma; a playful
wisdom which has eyes behind as well as before, and oversees
itself.  It asserts their health and independence of the
experience of later times.  This pledge of sanity cannot be
spared in a book, that it sometimes pleasantly reflect upon
itself.  The story and fabulous portion of this book winds
loosely from sentence to sentence as so many oases in a desert,
and is as indistinct as a camel's track between Mourzouk and
Darfour.  It is a comment on the flow and freshet of modern
books.  The reader leaps from sentence to sentence, as from one
stepping-stone to another, while the stream of the story rushes
past unregarded.  The Bhagvat-Geeta is less sententious and
poetic, perhaps, but still more wonderfully sustained and
developed.  Its sanity and sublimity have impressed the minds
even of soldiers and merchants.  It is the characteristic of
great poems that they will yield of their sense in due proportion
to the hasty and the deliberate reader.  To the practical they
will be common sense, and to the wise wisdom; as either the
traveller may wet his lips, or an army may fill its water-casks
at a full stream.
One of the most attractive of those ancient books that I have met
with is the Laws of Menu.  According to Sir William Jones,
"Vyasa, the son of Parasara, has decided that the Veda, with its
Angas, or the six compositions deduced from it, the revealed
system of medicine, the Puranas or sacred histories, and the code
of Menu, were four works of supreme authority, which ought never
to be shaken by arguments merely human." The last is believed by
the Hindoos "to have been promulged in the beginning of time, by
Menu, son or grandson of Brahma," and "first of created beings";
and Brahma is said to have "taught his laws to Menu in a hundred
thousand verses, which Menu explained to the primitive world in
the very words of the book now translated." Others affirm that
they have undergone successive abridgments for the convenience of
mortals, "while the gods of the lower heaven and the band of
celestial musicians are engaged in studying the primary
code."--"A number of glosses or comments on Menu were composed by
the Munis, or old philosophers, whose treatises, together with
that before us, constitute the Dherma Sastra, in a collective
sense, or Body of Law." Culluca Bhatta was one of the more modern
of these.
Every sacred book, successively, has been accepted in the faith
that it was to be the final resting-place of the sojourning soul;
but after all, it was but a caravansary which supplied refreshment
to the traveller, and directed him farther on his way to Isphahan
or Bagdat.  Thank God, no Hindoo tyranny prevailed at the framing
of the world, but we are freemen of the universe, and not
sentenced to any caste.
I know of no book which has come down to us with grander
pretensions than this, and it is so impersonal and sincere that
it is never offensive nor ridiculous.  Compare the modes in which
modern literature is advertised with the prospectus of this book,
and think what a reading public it addresses, what criticism it
expects.  It seems to have been uttered from some eastern summit,
with a sober morning prescience in the dawn of time, and you
cannot read a sentence without being elevated as upon the
table-land of the Ghauts.  It has such a rhythm as the winds of
the desert, such a tide as the Ganges, and is as superior to
criticism as the Himmaleh Mountains.  Its tone is of such
unrelaxed fibre, that even at this late day, unworn by time, it
wears the English and the Sanscrit dress indifferently; and its
fixed sentences keep up their distant fires still, like the
stars, by whose dissipated rays this lower world is illumined.
The whole book by noble gestures and inclinations renders many
words unnecessary.  English sense has toiled, but Hindoo wisdom
never perspired.  Though the sentences open as we read them,
unexpensively, and at first almost unmeaningly, as the petals of
a flower, they sometimes startle us with that rare kind of wisdom
which could only have been learned from the most trivial
experience; but it comes to us as refined as the porcelain earth
which subsides to the bottom of the ocean.  They are clean and
dry as fossil truths, which have been exposed to the elements for
thousands of years, so impersonally and scientifically true that
they are the ornament of the parlor and the cabinet.  Any _moral_
philosophy is exceedingly rare.  This of Menu addresses our
privacy more than most.  It is a more private and familiar, and,
at the same time, a more public and universal word, than is
spoken in parlor or pulpit now-a-days.  As our domestic fowls are
said to have their original in the wild pheasant of India, so our
domestic thoughts have their prototypes in the thoughts of her
philosophers.  We are dabbling in the very elements of our
present conventional and actual life; as if it were the primeval
conventicle where how to eat, and to drink, and to sleep, and
maintain life with adequate dignity and sincerity, were the
questions to be decided.  It is later and more intimate with us
even than the advice of our nearest friends.  And yet it is true
for the widest horizon, and read out of doors has relation to the
dim mountain line, and is native and aboriginal there.  Most
books belong to the house and street only, and in the fields
their leaves feel very thin.  They are bare and obvious, and have
no halo nor haze about them.  Nature lies far and fair behind
them all.  But this, as it proceeds from, so it addresses, what
is deepest and most abiding in man.  It belongs to the noontide
of the day, the midsummer of the year, and after the snows have
melted, and the waters evaporated in the spring, still its truth
speaks freshly to our experience.  It helps the sun to shine, and
his rays fall on its page to illustrate it.  It spends the
mornings and the evenings, and makes such an impression on us
overnight as to awaken us before dawn, and its influence lingers
around us like a fragrance late into the day.  It conveys a new
gloss to the meadows and the depths of the wood, and its spirit,
like a more subtile ether, sweeps along with the prevailing winds
of a country.  The very locusts and crickets of a summer day are
but later or earlier glosses on the Dherma Sastra of the Hindoos,
a continuation of the sacred code.  As we have said, there is an
orientalism in the most restless pioneer, and the farthest west
is but the farthest east.  While we are reading these sentences,
this fair modern world seems only a reprint of the Laws of Menu
with the gloss of Culluca.  Tried by a New England eye, or the
mere practical wisdom of modern times, they are the oracles of a
race already in its dotage, but held up to the sky, which is the
only impartial and incorruptible ordeal, they are of a piece with
its depth and serenity, and I am assured that they will have a
place and significance as long as there is a sky to test them by.
Give me a sentence which no intelligence can understand.  There
must be a kind of life and palpitation to it, and under its words
a kind of blood must circulate forever.  It is wonderful that
this sound should have come down to us from so far, when the
voice of man can be heard so little way, and we are not now
within ear-shot of any contemporary.  The woodcutters have here
felled an ancient pine forest, and brought to light to these
distant hills a fair lake in the southwest; and now in an instant
it is distinctly shown to these woods as if its image had
travelled hither from eternity.  Perhaps these old stumps upon
the knoll remember when anciently this lake gleamed in the
horizon.  One wonders if the bare earth itself did not experience
emotion at beholding again so fair a prospect.  That fair water
lies there in the sun thus revealed, so much the prouder and
fairer because its beauty needed not to be seen.  It seems yet
lonely, sufficient to itself, and superior to observation.--So
are these old sentences like serene lakes in the southwest, at
length revealed to us, which have so long been reflecting our own
sky in their bosom.
