
The great plain of India lies as in a cup between the Himmaleh and
the ocean on the north and south, and the Brahmapootra and Indus,
on the east and west, wherein the primeval race was received.
We will not dispute the story.  We are pleased to read in the
natural history of the country, of the "pine, larch, spruce, and
silver fir," which cover the southern face of the Himmaleh range;
of the "gooseberry, raspberry, strawberry," which from an
imminent temperate zone overlook the torrid plains.  So did this
active modern life have even then a foothold and lurking-place in
the midst of the stateliness and contemplativeness of those
Eastern plains.  In another era the "lily of the valley, cowslip,
dandelion," were to work their way down into the plain, and bloom
in a level zone of their own reaching round the earth.  Already
has the era of the temperate zone arrived, the era of the pine
and the oak, for the palm and the banian do not supply the wants
of this age.  The lichens on the summits of the rocks will
perchance find their level erelong.
As for the tenets of the Brahmans, we are not so much concerned
to know what doctrines they held, as that they were held by any.
We can tolerate all philosophies, Atomists, Pneumatologists,
Atheists, Theists,--Plato, Aristotle, Leucippus, Democritus,
Pythagoras, Zoroaster, and Confucius.  It is the attitude of
these men, more than any communication which they make, that
attracts us.  Between them and their commentators, it is true,
there is an endless dispute.  But if it comes to this, that you
compare notes, then you are all wrong.  As it is, each takes us
up into the serene heavens, whither the smallest bubble rises as
surely as the largest, and paints earth and sky for us.  Any
sincere thought is irresistible.  The very austerity of the
Brahmans is tempting to the devotional soul, as a more refined
and nobler luxury.  Wants so easily and gracefully satisfied seem
like a more refined pleasure.  Their conception of creation is
peaceful as a dream.  "When that power awakes, then has this
world its full expansion; but when he slumbers with a tranquil
spirit, then the whole system fades away."  In the very
indistinctness of their theogony a sublime truth is implied.  It
hardly allows the reader to rest in any supreme first cause, but
directly it hints at a supremer still which created the last, and
the Creator is still behind increate.
Nor will we disturb the antiquity of this Scripture; "From fire,
from air, and from the sun," it was "milked out." One might as
well investigate the chronology of light and heat.  Let the sun
shine.  Menu understood this matter best, when he said, "Those
best know the divisions of days and nights who understand that
the day of Brahma, which endures to the end of a thousand such
ages, [infinite ages, nevertheless, according to mortal
reckoning,] gives rise to virtuous exertions; and that his night
endures as long as his day." Indeed, the Mussulman and Tartar
dynasties are beyond all dating.  Methinks I have lived under
them myself.  In every man's brain is the Sanscrit.  The Vedas
and their Angas are not so ancient as serene contemplation.  Why
will we be imposed on by antiquity?  Is the babe young?  When I
behold it, it seems more venerable than the oldest man; it is
more ancient than Nestor or the Sibyls, and bears the wrinkles of
father Saturn himself.  And do we live but in the present?  How
broad a line is that?  I sit now on a stump whose rings number
centuries of growth.  If I look around I see that the soil is
composed of the remains of just such stumps, ancestors to this.
The earth is covered with mould.  I thrust this stick many aeons
deep into its surface, and with my heel make a deeper furrow than
the elements have ploughed here for a thousand years.  If I
listen, I hear the peep of frogs which is older than the slime of
Egypt, and the distant drumming of a partridge on a log, as if it
were the pulse-beat of the summer air.  I raise my fairest and
freshest flowers in the old mould.  Why, what we would fain call
new is not skin deep; the earth is not yet stained by it.  It is
not the fertile ground which we walk on, but the leaves which
flutter over our heads.  The newest is but the oldest made
visible to our senses.  When we dig up the soil from a thousand
feet below the surface, we call it new, and the plants which
spring from it; and when our vision pierces deeper into space,
and detects a remoter star, we call that new also.  The place
where we sit is called Hudson,--once it was Nottingham,--once --
We should read history as little critically as we consider the
landscape, and be more interested by the atmospheric tints and
various lights and shades which the intervening spaces create,
than by its groundwork and composition.  It is the morning now
turned evening and seen in the west,--the same sun, but a new
light and atmosphere.  Its beauty is like the sunset; not a
fresco painting on a wall, flat and bounded, but atmospheric and
roving or free.  In reality, history fluctuates as the face of
the landscape from morning to evening.  What is of moment is its
hue and color.  Time hides no treasures; we want not its _then_,
but its _now_.  We do not complain that the mountains in the
horizon are blue and indistinct; they are the more like the
heavens.
Of what moment are facts that can be lost,--which need to be
commemorated?  The monument of death will outlast the memory of
the dead.  The pyramids do not tell the tale which was confided
to them; the living fact commemorates itself.  Why look in the
dark for light?  Strictly speaking, the historical societies have
not recovered one fact from oblivion, but are themselves, instead
of the fact, that is lost.  The researcher is more memorable than
the researched.  The crowd stood admiring the mist and the dim
outlines of the trees seen through it, when one of their number
advanced to explore the phenomenon, and with fresh admiration all
eyes were turned on his dimly retreating figure.  It is astonishing
with how little co-operation of the societies the past is remembered.
Its story has indeed had another muse than has been assigned it.
There is a good instance of the manner in which all history
began, in Alwakidis' Arabian Chronicle: "I was informed by _Ahmed
Almatin Aljorhami_, who had it from _Rephaa Ebn Kais Alamiri_,
who had it from _Saiph Ebn Fabalah Alchatquarmi_, who had it from
_Thabet Ebn Alkamah_, who said he was present at the action."
These fathers of history were not anxious to preserve, but to
learn the fact; and hence it was not forgotten.  Critical acumen
is exerted in vain to uncover the past; the _past_ cannot be
_presented_; we cannot know what we are not.  But one veil hangs
over past, present, and future, and it is the province of the
historian to find out, not what was, but what is.  Where a battle
has been fought, you will find nothing but the bones of men and
beasts; where a battle is being fought, there are hearts beating.
We will sit on a mound and muse, and not try to make these
skeletons stand on their legs again.  Does Nature remember, think
you, that they _were_ men, or not rather that they _are_ bones?
Ancient history has an air of antiquity.  It should be more
modern.  It is written as if the spectator should be thinking of
the backside of the picture on the wall, or as if the author
expected that the dead would be his readers, and wished to detail
to them their own experience.  Men seem anxious to accomplish an
orderly retreat through the centuries, earnestly rebuilding the
works behind, as they are battered down by the encroachments of
time; but while they loiter, they and their works both fall a
prey to the arch enemy.  History has neither the venerableness of
antiquity, nor the freshness of the modern.  It does as if it
would go to the beginning of things, which natural history might
with reason assume to do; but consider the Universal History, and
then tell us,--when did burdock and plantain sprout first?  It
has been so written for the most part, that the times it
describes are with remarkable propriety called _dark ages_.  They
are dark, as one has observed, because we are so in the dark
about them.  The sun rarely shines in history, what with the dust
and confusion; and when we meet with any cheering fact which
implies the presence of this luminary, we excerpt and modernize
it.  As when we read in the history of the Saxons that Edwin of
Northumbria "caused stakes to be fixed in the highways where he
had seen a clear spring," and "brazen dishes were chained to them
to refresh the weary sojourner, whose fatigues Edwin had himself
experienced."  This is worth all Arthur's twelve battles.
   "Through the shadow of the world we sweep into the younger day:
    Better fifty years of Europe than a cycle of Cathay."
    Than fifty years of Europe better one New England ray!
Biography, too, is liable to the same objection; it should be
autobiography.  Let us not, as the Germans advise, endeavor to go
abroad and vex our bowels that we may be somebody else to explain
him.  If I am not I, who will be?
But it is fit that the Past should be dark; though the darkness
is not so much a quality of the past as of tradition.  It is not
a distance of time, but a distance of relation, which makes thus
dusky its memorials.  What is near to the heart of this
generation is fair and bright still.  Greece lies outspread fair
and sunshiny in floods of light, for there is the sun and
daylight in her literature and art.  Homer does not allow us to
forget that the sun shone,--nor Phidias, nor the Parthenon.  Yet
no era has been wholly dark, nor will we too hastily submit to
the historian, and congratulate ourselves on a blaze of light.
If we could pierce the obscurity of those remote years, we should
find it light enough; only _there_ is not our day.  Some
creatures are made to see in the dark.  There has always been the
same amount of light in the world.  The new and missing stars,
the comets and eclipses, do not affect the general illumination,
for only our glasses appreciate them.  The eyes of the oldest
fossil remains, they tell us, indicate that the same laws of
light prevailed then as now.  Always the laws of light are the
same, but the modes and degrees of seeing vary.  The gods are
partial to no era, but steadily shines their light in the
heavens, while the eye of the beholder is turned to stone.  There
was but the sun and the eye from the first.  The ages have not
added a new ray to the one, nor altered a fibre of the other.
If we will admit time into our thoughts at all, the mythologies,
those vestiges of ancient poems, wrecks of poems, so to speak,
the world's inheritance, still reflecting some of their original
splendor, like the fragments of clouds tinted by the rays of the
departed sun; reaching into the latest summer day, and allying
this hour to the morning of creation; as the poet sings:--
     "Fragments of the lofty strain
       Float down the tide of years,
     As buoyant on the stormy main
       A parted wreck appears."
These are the materials and hints for a history of the rise and
progress of the race; how, from the condition of ants, it arrived
at the condition of men, and arts were gradually invented.  Let a
thousand surmises shed some light on this story.  We will not be
confined by historical, even geological periods which would allow
us to doubt of a progress in human affairs.  If we rise above
this wisdom for the day, we shall expect that this morning of the
race, in which it has been supplied with the simplest necessaries,
with corn, and wine, and honey, and oil, and fire, and articulate
speech, and agricultural and other arts, reared up by degrees
from the condition of ants to men, will be succeeded by a day of
equally progressive splendor; that, in the lapse of the divine
periods, other divine agents and godlike men will assist to
elevate the race as much above its present condition.
But we do not know much about it.
Thus did one voyageur waking dream, while his companion slumbered
on the bank.  Suddenly a boatman's horn was heard echoing from
shore to shore, to give notice of his approach to the farmer's
wife with whom he was to take his dinner, though in that place
only muskrats and kingfishers seemed to hear.  The current of our
reflections and our slumbers being thus disturbed, we weighed
anchor once more.
As we proceeded on our way in the afternoon, the western bank
became lower, or receded farther from the channel in some places,
leaving a few trees only to fringe the water's edge; while the
eastern rose abruptly here and there into wooded hills fifty or
sixty feet high.  The bass, _Tilia Americana_, also called the
lime or linden, which was a new tree to us, overhung the water
with its broad and rounded leaf, interspersed with clusters of
small hard berries now nearly ripe, and made an agreeable shade
for us sailors.  The inner bark of this genus is the bast, the
material of the fisherman's matting, and the ropes and peasant's
shoes of which the Russians make so much use, and also of nets
and a coarse cloth in some places.  According to poets, this was
once Philyra, one of the Oceanides.  The ancients are said to
have used its bark for the roofs of cottages, for baskets, and
for a kind of paper called Philyra.  They also made bucklers of
its wood, "on account of its flexibility, lightness, and
resiliency."  It was once much used for carving, and is still in
demand for sounding-boards of piano-fortes and panels of
carriages, and for various uses for which toughness and
flexibility are required.  Baskets and cradles are made of the
twigs.  Its sap affords sugar, and the honey made from its
flowers is said to be preferred to any other.  Its leaves are in
some countries given to cattle, a kind of chocolate has been made
of its fruit, a medicine has been prepared from an infusion of
its flowers, and finally, the charcoal made of its wood is
greatly valued for gunpowder.
The sight of this tree reminded us that we had reached a strange
land to us.  As we sailed under this canopy of leaves we saw the
sky through its chinks, and, as it were, the meaning and idea of
the tree stamped in a thousand hieroglyphics on the heavens.  The
universe is so aptly fitted to our organization that the eye
wanders and reposes at the same time.  On every side there is
something to soothe and refresh this sense.  Look up at the
tree-tops and see how finely Nature finishes off her work there.
See how the pines spire without end higher and higher, and make a
graceful fringe to the earth.  And who shall count the finer
cobwebs that soar and float away from their utmost tops, and the
myriad insects that dodge between them.  Leaves are of more
various forms than the alphabets of all languages put together;
of the oaks alone there are hardly two alike, and each expresses
its own character.
In all her products Nature only develops her simplest germs.  One
would say that it was no great stretch of invention to create
birds.  The hawk, which now takes his flight over the top of the
wood, was at first, perchance, only a leaf which fluttered in its
aisles.  From rustling leaves she came in the course of ages to
the loftier flight and clear carol of the bird.
Salmon Brook comes in from the west under the railroad, a mile
and a half below the village of Nashua.  We rowed up far enough
into the meadows which border it to learn its piscatorial history
from a haymaker on its banks.  He told us that the silver eel was
formerly abundant here, and pointed to some sunken creels at its
mouth.  This man's memory and imagination were fertile in
fishermen's tales of floating isles in bottomless ponds, and of
lakes mysteriously stocked with fishes, and would have kept us
till nightfall to listen, but we could not afford to loiter in
this roadstead, and so stood out to our sea again.  Though we
never trod in those meadows, but only touched their margin with
our hands, we still retain a pleasant memory of them.
Salmon Brook, whose name is said to be a translation from the
Indian, was a favorite haunt of the aborigines.  Here, too, the
first white settlers of Nashua planted, and some dents in the
earth where their houses stood and the wrecks of ancient
apple-trees are still visible.  About one mile up this stream
stood the house of old John Lovewell, who was an ensign in the
army of Oliver Cromwell, and the father of "famous Captain
Lovewell."  He settled here before 1690, and died about 1754, at
the age of one hundred and twenty years.  He is thought to have
been engaged in the famous Narragansett swamp fight, which took
place in 1675, before he came here.  The Indians are said to have
spared him in succeeding wars on account of his kindness to them.
Even in 1700 he was so old and gray-headed that his scalp was
worth nothing, since the French Governor offered no bounty for
such.  I have stood in the dent of his cellar on the bank of the
brook, and talked there with one whose grandfather had, whose
father might have, talked with Lovewell.  Here also he had a mill
in his old age, and kept a small store.  He was remembered by
some who were recently living, as a hale old man who drove the
boys out of his orchard with his cane.  Consider the triumphs of
the mortal man, and what poor trophies it would have to show, to
wit:--He cobbled shoes without glasses at a hundred, and cut a
handsome swath at a hundred and five!  Lovewell's house is said
to have been the first which Mrs.  Dustan reached on her escape
from the Indians.  Here probably the hero of Pequawket was born
and bred.  Close by may be seen the cellar and the gravestone of
Joseph Hassell, who, as is elsewhere recorded, with his wife
Anna, and son Benjamin, and Mary Marks, "were slain by our Indian
enemies on September 2d, [1691,] in the evening." As Gookin
observed on a previous occasion, "The Indian rod upon the English
backs had not yet done God's errand." Salmon Brook near its mouth
is still a solitary stream, meandering through woods and meadows,
while the then uninhabited mouth of the Nashua now resounds with
the din of a manufacturing town.
A stream from Otternic Pond in Hudson comes in just above Salmon
Brook, on the opposite side.  There was a good view of Uncannunuc,
the most conspicuous mountain in these parts, from the bank here,
seen rising over the west end of the bridge above.  We soon after
passed the village of Nashua, on the river of the same name,
where there is a covered bridge over the Merrimack.  The Nashua,
which is one of the largest tributaries, flows from Wachusett
Mountain, through Lancaster, Groton, and other towns, where it
has formed well-known elm-shaded meadows, but near its mouth it
is obstructed by falls and factories, and did not tempt us to
explore it.
Far away from here, in Lancaster, with another companion, I have
crossed the broad valley of the Nashua, over which we had so long
looked westward from the Concord hills without seeing it to the
blue mountains in the horizon.  So many streams, so many meadows
and woods and quiet dwellings of men had lain concealed between
us and those Delectable Mountains;--from yonder hill on the road
to Tyngsborough you may get a good view of them.  There where it
seemed uninterrupted forest to our youthful eyes, between two
neighboring pines in the horizon, lay the valley of the Nashua,
and this very stream was even then winding at its bottom, and
then, as now, it was here silently mingling its waters with the
Merrimack.  The clouds which floated over its meadows and were
born there, seen far in the west, gilded by the rays of the
setting sun, had adorned a thousand evening skies for us.  But as
it were, by a turf wall this valley was concealed, and in our
journey to those hills it was first gradually revealed to us.
Summer and winter our eyes had rested on the dim outline of the
mountains, to which distance and indistinctness lent a grandeur
not their own, so that they served to interpret all the allusions
of poets and travellers.  Standing on the Concord Cliffs we thus
spoke our mind to them:--
     With frontier strength ye stand your ground,
     With grand content ye circle round,
     Tumultuous silence for all sound,
     Ye distant nursery of rills,
     Monadnock and the Peterborough Hills;--
     Firm argument that never stirs,
     Outcircling the philosophers,--
     Like some vast fleet,
     Sailing through rain and sleet,
     Through winter's cold and summer's heat;
     Still holding on upon your high emprise,
     Until ye find a shore amid the skies;
     Not skulking close to land,
     With cargo contraband,
     For they who sent a venture out by ye
     Have set the Sun to see
     Their honesty.
     Ships of the line, each one,
     Ye westward run,
     Convoying clouds,
     Which cluster in your shrouds,
     Always before the gale,
     Under a press of sail,
     With weight of metal all untold,--
     I seem to feel ye in my firm seat here,
     Immeasurable depth of hold,
     And breadth of beam, and length of running gear
     Methinks ye take luxurious pleasure
     In your novel western leisure;
     So cool your brows and freshly blue,
     As Time had naught for ye to do;
     For  ye lie at your length,
     An unappropriated strength,
     Unhewn primeval timber,
     For knees so stiff, for masts so limber;
     The stock of which new earths are made,
     One day to be our _western_ trade,
     Fit for the stanchions of a world
     Which through the seas of space is hurled.
