
     While we enjoy a lingering ray,
     Ye still o'ertop the western day,
     Reposing yonder on God's croft
     Like solid stacks of hay;
     So bold a line as ne'er was writ
     On any page by human wit;
     The forest glows as if
     An enemy's camp-fires shone
     Along the horizon,
     Or the day's funeral pyre
     Were lighted there;
     Edged with silver and with gold,
     The clouds hang o'er in damask fold,
     And with such depth of amber light
     The west is dight,
     Where still a few rays slant,
     That even Heaven seems extravagant.
     Watatic Hill
     Lies on the horizon's sill
     Like a child's toy left overnight,
     And other duds to left and right,
     On the earth's edge, mountains and trees
     Stand as they were on air graven,
     Or as the vessels in a haven
     Await the morning breeze.
     I fancy even
     Through your defiles windeth the way to heaven;
     And yonder still, in spite of history's page,
     Linger the golden and the silver age;
     Upon the laboring gale
     The news of future centuries is brought,
     And of new dynasties of thought,
     From your remotest vale.
     But special I remember thee,
     Wachusett, who like me
     Standest alone without society.
     Thy far blue eye,
     A remnant of the sky,
     Seen through the clearing or the gorge,
     Or from the windows of the forge,
     Doth leaven all it passes by.
     Nothing is true
     But stands 'tween me and you,
     Thou western pioneer,
     Who know'st not shame nor fear,
     By venturous spirit driven
     Under the eaves of heaven;
     And canst expand thee there,
     And breathe enough of air?
     Even beyond the West
     Thou migratest,
     Into unclouded tracts,
     Without a pilgrim's axe,
     Cleaving thy road on high
     With thy well-tempered brow,
     And mak'st thyself a clearing in the sky.
     Upholding heaven, holding down earth,
     Thy pastime from thy birth;
     Not steadied by the one, nor leaning on the other,
     May I approve myself thy worthy brother!
At length, like Rasselas and other inhabitants of happy valleys,
we had resolved to scale the blue wall which bounded the western
horizon, though not without misgivings that thereafter no visible
fairy-land would exist for us.  But it would be long to tell of
our adventures, and we have no time this afternoon, transporting
ourselves in imagination up this hazy Nashua valley, to go over
again that pilgrimage.  We have since made many similar
excursions to the principal mountains of New England and New
York, and even far in the wilderness, and have passed a night on
the summit of many of them.  And now, when we look again westward
from our native hills, Wachusett and Monadnock have retreated
once more among the blue and fabulous mountains in the horizon,
though our eyes rest on the very rocks on both of them, where we
have pitched our tent for a night, and boiled our hasty-pudding
amid the clouds.
As late as 1724 there was no house on the north side of the
Nashua, but only scattered wigwams and grisly forests between
this frontier and Canada.  In September of that year, two men who
were engaged in making turpentine on that side, for such were the
first enterprises in the wilderness, were taken captive and
carried to Canada by a party of thirty Indians.  Ten of the
inhabitants of Dunstable, going to look for them, found the hoops
of their barrel cut, and the turpentine spread on the ground.  I
have been told by an inhabitant of Tyngsborough, who had the
story from his ancestors, that one of these captives, when the
Indians were about to upset his barrel of turpentine, seized a
pine knot and flourishing it, swore so resolutely that he would
kill the first who touched it, that they refrained, and when at
length he returned from Canada he found it still standing.
Perhaps there was more than one barrel.  However this may have
been, the scouts knew by marks on the trees, made with coal mixed
with grease, that the men were not killed, but taken prisoners.
One of the company, named Farwell, perceiving that the turpentine
had not done spreading, concluded that the Indians had been gone
but a short time, and they accordingly went in instant pursuit.
Contrary to the advice of Farwell, following directly on their
trail up the Merrimack, they fell into an ambuscade near
Thornton's Ferry, in the present town of Merrimack, and nine were
killed, only one, Farwell, escaping after a vigorous pursuit.
The men of Dunstable went out and picked up their bodies, and
carried them all down to Dunstable and buried them.  It is almost
word for word as in the Robin Hood ballad:--
     "They carried these foresters into fair Nottingham,
       As many there did know,
     They digged them graves in their churchyard,
       And they buried them all a-row."
Nottingham is only the other side of the river, and they were not
exactly all a-row.  You may read in the churchyard at Dunstable,
under the "Memento Mori," and the name of one of them, how they
"departed this life," and
      "This man with seven more that lies in
      this grave was slew all in a day by
                    the Indians."
The stones of some others of the company stand around the common
grave with their separate inscriptions.  Eight were buried here,
but nine were killed, according to the best authorities.
     "Gentle river, gentle river,
       Lo, thy streams are stained with gore,
     Many a brave and noble captain
       Floats along thy willowed shore.
     "All beside thy limpid waters,
       All beside thy sands so bright,
     _Indian_ Chiefs and Christian warriors
       Joined in fierce and mortal fight."
It is related in the History of Dunstable, that on the return of
Farwell the Indians were engaged by a fresh party which they
compelled to retreat, and pursued as far as the Nashua, where
they fought across the stream at its mouth.  After the departure
of the Indians, the figure of an Indian's head was found carved
by them on a large tree by the shore, which circumstance has
given its name to this part of the village of Nashville,--the
"Indian Head."  "It was observed by some judicious," says Gookin,
referring to Philip's war, "that at the beginning of the war the
English soldiers made a nothing of the Indians, and many spake
words to this effect: that one Englishman was sufficient to chase
ten Indians; many reckoned it was no other but _Veni, vidi,
vici._" But we may conclude that the judicious would by this time
have made a different observation.
Farwell appears to have been the only one who had studied his
profession, and understood the business of hunting Indians.  He
lived to fight another day, for the next year he was Lovewell's
lieutenant at Pequawket, but that time, as we have related, he
left his bones in the wilderness.  His name still reminds us of
twilight days and forest scouts on Indian trails, with an uneasy
scalp;--an indispensable hero to New England.  As the more recent
poet of Lovewell's fight has sung, halting a little but bravely
still:--
     "Then did the crimson streams that flowed
       Seem like the waters of the brook,
     That brightly shine, that loudly dash,
       Far down the cliffs of Agiochook."
These battles sound incredible to us.  I think that posterity
will doubt if such things ever were; if our bold ancestors who
settled this land were not struggling rather with the forest
shadows, and not with a copper-colored race of men.  They were
vapors, fever and ague of the unsettled woods.  Now, only a few
arrow-heads are turned up by the plough.  In the Pelasgic, the
Etruscan, or the British story, there is nothing so shadowy and
unreal.
It is a wild and antiquated looking graveyard, overgrown with
bushes, on the high-road, about a quarter of a mile from and
overlooking the Merrimack, with a deserted mill-stream bounding
it on one side, where lie the earthly remains of the ancient
inhabitants of Dunstable.  We passed it three or four miles below
here.  You may read there the names of Lovewell, Farwell, and
many others whose families were distinguished in Indian warfare.
We noticed there two large masses of granite more than a foot
thick and rudely squared, lying flat on the ground over the
remains of the first pastor and his wife.
It is remarkable that the dead lie everywhere under stones,--
     "Strata jacent passim _suo_ quseque sub" _lapide_--
_corpora_, we might say, if the measure allowed.  When the stone
is a slight one, it does not oppress the spirits of the traveller
to meditate by it; but these did seem a little heathenish to us;
and so are all large monuments over men's bodies, from the
pyramids down.  A monument should at least be "star-y-pointing,"
to indicate whither the spirit is gone, and not prostrate, like
the body it has deserted.  There have been some nations who could
do nothing but construct tombs, and these are the only traces
which they have left.  They are the heathen.  But why these
stones, so upright and emphatic, like exclamation-points?  What
was there so remarkable that lived?  Why should the monument be
so much more enduring than the fame which it is designed to
perpetuate,--a stone to a bone?  "Here lies,"--"Here lies";--why
do they not sometimes write, There rises?  Is it a monument to
the body only that is intended?  "Having reached the term of his
_natural_ life";--would it not be truer to say, Having reached
the term of his _unnatural_ life?  The rarest quality in an
epitaph is truth.  If any character is given, it should be as
severely true as the decision of the three judges below, and not
the partial testimony of friends.  Friends and contemporaries
should supply only the name and date, and leave it to posterity
to write the epitaph.
               Here lies an honest man,
               Rear-Admiral Van.
                      
               Faith, then ye have
               Two in one grave,
               For in his favor,
               Here too lies the Engraver.
Fame itself is but an epitaph; as late, as false, as true.  But
they only are the true epitaphs which Old Mortality retouches.
A man might well pray that he may not taboo or curse any portion
of nature by being buried in it.  For the most part, the best
man's spirit makes a fearful sprite to haunt his grave, and it is
therefore much to the credit of Little John, the famous follower
of Robin Hood, and reflecting favorably on his character, that
his grave was "long celebrous for the yielding of excellent
whetstones."  I confess that I have but little love for such
collections as they have at the Catacombs, Pere la Chaise, Mount
Auburn, and even this Dunstable graveyard.  At any rate, nothing
but great antiquity can make graveyards interesting to me.  I
have no friends there.  It may be that I am not competent to
write the poetry of the grave.  The farmer who has skimmed his
farm might perchance leave his body to Nature to be ploughed in,
and in some measure restore its fertility.  We should not retard
but forward her economies.
