
Soon the village of Nashua was out of sight, and the woods were
gained again, and we rowed slowly on before sunset, looking for a
solitary place in which to spend the night.  A few evening clouds
began to be reflected in the water and the surface was dimpled
only here and there by a muskrat crossing the stream.  We camped
at length near Penichook Brook, on the confines of what is now
Nashville, by a deep ravine, under the skirts of a pine wood,
where the dead pine-leaves were our carpet, and their tawny
boughs stretched overhead.  But fire and smoke soon tamed the
scene; the rocks consented to be our walls, and the pines our
roof.  A woodside was already the fittest locality for us.
The wilderness is near as well as dear to every man.  Even the
oldest villages are indebted to the border of wild wood which
surrounds them, more than to the gardens of men.  There is
something indescribably inspiriting and beautiful in the aspect
of the forest skirting and occasionally jutting into the midst of
new towns, which, like the sand-heaps of fresh fox-burrows, have
sprung up in their midst.  The very uprightness of the pines and
maples asserts the ancient rectitude and vigor of nature.  Our
lives need the relief of such a background, where the pine
flourishes and the jay still screams.
We had found a safe harbor for our boat, and as the sun was
setting carried up our furniture, and soon arranged our house
upon the bank, and while the kettle steamed at the tent door, we
chatted of distant friends and of the sights which we were to
behold, and wondered which way the towns lay from us.  Our cocoa
was soon boiled, and supper set upon our chest, and we lengthened
out this meal, like old voyageurs, with our talk.  Meanwhile we
spread the map on the ground, and read in the Gazetteer when the
first settlers came here and got a township granted.  Then, when
supper was done and we had written the journal of our voyage, we
wrapped our buffaloes about us and lay down with our heads
pillowed on our arms listening awhile to the distant baying of a
dog, or the murmurs of the river, or to the wind, which had not
gone to rest:--
     The western wind came lumbering in,
     Bearing a faint Pacific din,
     Our evening mail, swift at the call
     Of its Postmaster General;
     Laden with news from Californ',
     Whate'er transpired hath since morn,
     How wags the world by brier and brake
     From hence to Athabasca Lake;--
or half awake and half asleep, dreaming of a star which glimmered
through our cotton roof.  Perhaps at midnight one was awakened by
a cricket shrilly singing on his shoulder, or by a hunting spider
in his eye, and was lulled asleep again by some streamlet purling
its way along at the bottom of a wooded and rocky ravine in our
neighborhood.  It was pleasant to lie with our heads so low in
the grass, and hear what a tinkling ever-busy laboratory it was.
A thousand little artisans beat on their anvils all night long.
Far in the night as we were falling asleep on the bank of the
Merrimack, we heard some tyro beating a drum incessantly, in
preparation for a country muster, as we learned, and we thought
of the line,--
     "When the drum beat at dead of night."
We could have assured him that his beat would be answered, and
the forces be mustered.  Fear not, thou drummer of the night, we
too will be there.  And still he drummed on in the silence and
the dark.  This stray sound from a far-off sphere came to our
ears from time to time, far, sweet, and significant, and we
listened with such an unprejudiced sense as if for the first time
we heard at all.  No doubt he was an insignificant drummer
enough, but his music afforded us a prime and leisure hour, and
we felt that we were in season wholly.  These simple sounds
related us to the stars.  Ay, there was a logic in them so
convincing that the combined sense of mankind could never make me
doubt their conclusions.  I stop my habitual thinking, as if the
plough had suddenly run deeper in its furrow through the crust of
the world.  How can I go on, who have just stepped over such a
bottomless skylight in the bog of my life.  Suddenly old Time
winked at me,--Ah, you know me, you rogue,--and news had come
that IT was well.  That ancient universe is in such capital
health, I think undoubtedly it will never die.  Heal yourselves,
doctors; by God, I live.
                Then idle Time ran gadding by
                And left me with Eternity alone;
            I hear beyond the range of sound,
            I see beyond the verge of sight,--
I see, smell, taste, hear, feel, that everlasting Something to
which we are allied, at once our maker, our abode, our destiny,
our very Selves; the one historic truth, the most remarkable fact
which can become the distinct and uninvited subject of our
thought, the actual glory of the universe; the only fact which a
human being cannot avoid recognizing, or in some way forget or
dispense with.
           It doth expand my privacies
       To all, and leave me single in the crowd.
I have seen how the foundations of the world are laid, and I have
not the least doubt that it will stand a good while.
         Now chiefly is my natal hour,
         And only now my prime of life.
         I will not doubt the love untold,
         Which not my worth nor want hath bought,
         Which wooed me young and wooes me old,
         And to this evening hath me brought.
What are ears? what is Time? that this particular series of
sounds called a strain of music, an invisible and fairy troop
which never brushed the dew from any mead, can be wafted down
through the centuries from Homer to me, and he have been
conversant with that same aerial and mysterious charm which now
so tingles my ears?  What a fine communication from age to age,
of the fairest and noblest thoughts, the aspirations of ancient
men, even such as were never communicated by speech, is music!
It is the flower of language, thought colored and curved, fluent
and flexible, its crystal fountain tinged with the sun's rays,
and its purling ripples reflecting the grass and the clouds.  A
strain of music reminds me of a passage of the Vedas, and I
associate with it the idea of infinite remoteness, as well as of
beauty and serenity, for to the senses that is farthest from us
which addresses the greatest depth within us.  It teaches us
again and again to trust the remotest and finest as the divinest
instinct, and makes a dream our only real experience.  We feel a
sad cheer when we hear it, perchance because we that hear are not
one with that which is heard.
        Therefore a torrent of sadness deep,
        Through the strains of thy triumph is heard to sweep.
The sadness is ours.  The Indian poet Calidas says in the
Sacontala: "Perhaps the sadness of men on seeing beautiful forms
and hearing sweet music arises from some faint remembrance of
past joys, and the traces of connections in a former state of
existence." As polishing expresses the vein in marble, and grain
in wood, so music brings out what of heroic lurks anywhere.  The
hero is the sole patron of music.  That harmony which exists
naturally between the hero's moods and the universe the soldier
would fain imitate with drum and trumpet.  When we are in health
all sounds fife and drum for us; we hear the notes of music in
the air, or catch its echoes dying away when we awake in the
dawn.  Marching is when the pulse of the hero beats in unison
with the pulse of Nature, and he steps to the measure of the
universe; then there is true courage and invincible strength.
Plutarch says that "Plato thinks the gods never gave men music,
the science of melody and harmony, for mere delectation or to
tickle the ear; but that the discordant parts of the circulations
and beauteous fabric of the soul, and that of it that roves about
the body, and many times, for want of tune and air, breaks forth
into many extravagances and excesses, might be sweetly recalled
and artfully wound up to their former consent and agreement."
Music is the sound of the universal laws promulgated.  It is the
only assured tone.  There are in it such strains as far surpass
any man's faith in the loftiness of his destiny.  Things are to
be learned which it will be worth the while to learn.  Formerly I
heard these
         ^Rumors from an Aeolian Harp^.
      There is a vale which none hath seen,
      Where foot of man has never been,
      Such as here lives with toil and strife,
      An anxious and a sinful life.
     There every virtue has its birth,
     Ere it descends upon the earth,
     And thither every deed returns,
     Which in the generous bosom burns.
     There love is warm, and youth is young,
     And poetry is yet unsung,
     For Virtue still adventures there,
     And freely breathes her native air.
     And ever, if you hearken well,
     You still may hear its vesper bell,
     And tread of high-souled men go by,
     Their thoughts conversing with the sky.
According to Jamblichus, "Pythagoras did not procure for himself
a thing of this kind through instruments or the voice, but
employing a certain ineffable divinity, and which it is difficult
to apprehend, he extended his ears and fixed his intellect in the
sublime symphonies of the world, he alone hearing and
understanding, as it appears, the universal harmony and
consonance of the spheres, and the stars that are moved through
them, and which produce a fuller and more intense melody than
anything effected by mortal sounds."
Travelling on foot very early one morning due east from here
about twenty miles, from Caleb Harriman's tavern in Hampstead
toward Haverhill, when I reached the railroad in Plaistow, I
heard at some distance a faint music in the air like an Aeolian
harp, which I immediately suspected to proceed from the cord of
the telegraph vibrating in the just awakening morning wind, and
applying my ear to one of the posts I was convinced that it was
so.  It was the telegraph harp singing its message through the
country, its message sent not by men, but by gods.  Perchance,
like the statue of Memnon, it resounds only in the morning, when
the first rays of the sun fall on it.  It was like the first lyre
or shell heard on the sea-shore,--that vibrating cord high in the
air over the shores of earth.  So have all things their higher
and their lower uses.  I heard a fairer news than the journals
ever print.  It told of things worthy to hear, and worthy of the
electric fluid to carry the news of, not of the price of cotton
and flour, but it hinted at the price of the world itself and of
things which are priceless, of absolute truth and beauty.
