
The routine which is in the sunshine and the finest days, as that
which has conquered and prevailed, commends itself to us by its
very antiquity and apparent solidity and necessity.  Our weakness
needs it, and our strength uses it.  We cannot draw on our boots
without bracing ourselves against it.  If there were but one
erect and solid standing tree in the woods, all creatures would
go to rub against it and make sure of their footing.  During the
many hours which we spend in this waking sleep, the hand stands
still on the face of the clock, and we grow like corn in the
night.  Men are as busy as the brooks or bees, and postpone
everything to their business; as carpenters discuss politics
between the strokes of the hammer while they are shingling a
roof.
This noontide was a fit occasion to make some pleasant harbor,
and there read the journal of some voyageur like ourselves, not
too moral nor inquisitive, and which would not disturb the noon;
or else some old classic, the very flower of all reading, which
we had postponed to such a season
     "Of Syrian peace, immortal leisure."
But, alas, our chest, like the cabin of a coaster, contained only
its well-thumbed "Navigator" for all literature, and we were
obliged to draw on our memory for these things.
We naturally remembered Alexander Henry's Adventures here, as a
sort of classic among books of American travel.  It contains
scenery and rough sketching of men and incidents enough to
inspire poets for many years, and to my fancy is as full of
sounding names as any page of history,--Lake Winnipeg, Hudson
Bay, Ottaway, and portages innumerable; Chipeways, Gens de
Terres, Les Pilleurs, The Weepers; with reminiscences of Hearne's
journey, and the like; an immense and shaggy but sincere country,
summer and winter, adorned with chains of lakes and rivers,
covered with snows, with hemlocks, and fir-trees.  There is a
naturalness, an unpretending and cold life in this traveller, as
in a Canadian winter, what life was preserved through low
temperatures and frontier dangers by furs within a stout heart.
He has truth and moderation worthy of the father of history,
which belong only to an intimate experience, and he does not
defer too much to literature.  The unlearned traveller may quote
his single line from the poets with as good right as the scholar.
He too may speak of the stars, for he sees them shoot perhaps
when the astronomer does not.  The good sense of this author is
very conspicuous.  He is a traveller who does not exaggerate, but
writes for the information of his readers, for science, and for
history.  His story is told with as much good faith and
directness as if it were a report to his brother traders, or the
Directors of the Hudson Bay Company, and is fitly dedicated to
Sir Joseph Banks.  It reads like the argument to a great poem on
the primitive state of the country and its inhabitants, and the
reader imagines what in each case, with the invocation of the
Muse, might be sung, and leaves off with suspended interest, as
if the full account were to follow.  In what school was this
fur-trader educated?  He seems to travel the immense snowy
country with such purpose only as the reader who accompanies him,
and to the latter's imagination, it is, as it were, momentarily
created to be the scene of his adventures.  What is most
interesting and valuable in it, however, is not the materials for
the history of Pontiac, or Braddock, or the Northwest, which it
furnishes; not the _annals_ of the country, but the natural
facts, or _perennials_, which are ever without date.  When out of
history the truth shall be extracted, it will have shed its dates
like withered leaves.
The Souhegan, or _Crooked_ River, as some translate it, comes in
from the west about a mile and a half above Thornton's Ferry.
Babboosuck Brook empties into it near its mouth.  There are said
to be some of the finest water privileges in the country still
unimproved on the former stream, at a short distance from the
Merrimack.  One spring morning, March 22, in the year 1677, an
incident occurred on the banks of the river here, which is
interesting to us as a slight memorial of an interview between
two ancient tribes of men, one of which is now extinct, while the
other, though it is still represented by a miserable remnant, has
long since disappeared from its ancient hunting-grounds.  A
Mr. James Parker, at "Mr. Hinchmanne's farme ner Meremack," wrote
thus "to the Honred Governer and Council at Bostown, _Hast, Post
Hast":_--
  "Sagamore Wanalancet come this morning to informe me, and then
  went to Mr. Tyng's to informe him, that his son being on ye
  other sid of Meremack river over against Souhegan upon the 22
  day of this instant, about tene of the clock in the morning, he
  discovered 15 Indians on this sid the river, which he soposed
  to be Mohokes by ther spech.  He called to them; they answered,
  but he could not understand ther spech; and he having a conow
  ther in the river, he went to breck his conow that they might
  not have ani ues of it.  In the mean time they shot about
  thirty guns at him, and he being much frighted fled, and come
  home forthwith to Nahamcock [Pawtucket Falls or Lowell], wher
  ther wigowames now stand."
Penacooks and Mohawks! _ubique gentium sunt?_ In the year 1670, a
Mohawk warrior scalped a Naamkeak or else a Wamesit Indian maiden
near where Lowell now stands.  She, however, recovered.  Even as
late as 1685, John Hogkins, a Penacook Indian, who describes his
grandfather as having lived "at place called Malamake rever,
other name chef Natukkog and Panukkog, that one rever great many
names," wrote thus to the governor:--
                                                 "May 15th, 1685.
  "Honor governor my friend,--
  "You my friend I desire your worship and your power, because I
  hope you can do som great matters this one.  I am poor and
  naked and I have no men at my place because I afraid allwayes
  Mohogs he will kill me every day and night.  If your worship
  when please pray help me you no let Mohogs kill me at my place
  at Malamake river called Pannukkog and Natukkog, I will submit
  your worship and your power.  And now I want pouder and such
  alminishon shatt and guns, because I have forth at my hom and I
  plant theare.
  "This all Indian hand, but pray you do consider your humble
  servant,
                                                ^John Hogkins^."
  Signed also by Simon Detogkom, King Hary, Sam Linis, Mr. Jorge
  Rodunnonukgus, John Owamosimmin, and nine other Indians, with
  their marks against their names.
But now, one hundred and fifty-four years having elapsed since
the date of this letter, we went unalarmed on our way without
"brecking" our "conow," reading the New England Gazetteer, and
seeing no traces of "Mohogs" on the banks.
The Souhegan, though a rapid river, seemed to-day to have
borrowed its character from the noon.
     Where gleaming fields of haze
     Meet the voyageur's gaze,
     And above, the heated air
     Seems to make a river there,
     The pines stand up with pride
     By the Souhegan's side,
     And the hemlock and the larch
     With their triumphal arch
     Are waving o'er its march
        To the sea.
     No wind stirs its waves,
     But the spirits of the braves
        Hov'ring o'er,
     Whose antiquated graves
     Its still water laves
        On the shore.
     With an Indian's stealthy tread
     It goes sleeping in its bed,
     Without joy or grief,
     Or the rustle of a leaf,
     Without a ripple or a billow,
     Or the sigh of a willow,
     From the Lyndeboro' hills
     To the Merrimack mills.
     With a louder din
     Did its current begin,
     When melted the snow
     On the far mountain's brow,
     And the drops came together
     In that rainy weather.
     Experienced river,
     Hast thou flowed forever?
     Souhegan soundeth old,
     But the half is not told,
     What names hast thou borne,
     In the ages far gone,
     When the Xanthus and Meander
     Commenced to wander,
     Ere the black bear haunted
        Thy red forest-floor,
     Or Nature had planted
        The pines by thy shore?
During the heat of the day, we rested on a large island a mile
above the mouth of this river, pastured by a herd of cattle, with
steep banks and scattered elms and oaks, and a sufficient channel
for canal-boats on each side.  When we made a fire to boil some
rice for our dinner, the flames spreading amid the dry grass, and
the smoke curling silently upward and casting grotesque shadows
on the ground, seemed phenomena of the noon, and we fancied that
we progressed up the stream without effort, and as naturally as
the wind and tide went down, not outraging the calm days by
unworthy bustle or impatience.  The woods on the neighboring
shore were alive with pigeons, which were moving south, looking
for mast, but now, like ourselves, spending their noon in the
shade.  We could hear the slight, wiry, winnowing sound of their
wings as they changed their roosts from time to time, and their
gentle and tremulous cooing.  They sojourned with us during the
noontide, greater travellers far than we.  You may frequently
discover a single pair sitting upon the lower branches of the
white-pine in the depths of the wood, at this hour of the day, so
silent and solitary, and with such a hermit-like appearance, as
if they had never strayed beyond its skirts, while the acorn
which was gathered in the forests of Maine is still undigested in
their crops.  We obtained one of these handsome birds, which
lingered too long upon its perch, and plucked and broiled it here
with some other game, to be carried along for our supper; for,
beside the provisions which we carried with us, we depended
mainly on the river and forest for our supply.  It is true, it
did not seem to be putting this bird to its right use to pluck
off its feathers, and extract its entrails, and broil its carcass
on the coals; but we heroically persevered, nevertheless, waiting
for further information.  The same regard for Nature which
excited our sympathy for her creatures nerved our hands to carry
through what we had begun.  For we would be honorable to the
party we deserted; we would fulfil fate, and so at length,
perhaps, detect the secret innocence of these incessant tragedies
which Heaven allows.
     "Too quick resolves do resolution wrong,
     What, part so soon to be divorced so long?
     Things to be done are long to be debated;
     Heaven is not day'd, Repentance is not dated."
We are double-edged blades, and every time we whet our virtue the
return stroke straps our vice.  Where is the skilful swordsman who
can give clean wounds, and not rip up his work with the other
edge?
Nature herself has not provided the most graceful end for her
creatures.  What becomes of all these birds that people the air
and forest for our solacement?  The sparrows seem always
_chipper_, never infirm.  We do not see their bodies lie about.
Yet there is a tragedy at the end of each one of their lives.
They must perish miserably; not one of them is translated.  True,
"not a sparrow falleth to the ground without our Heavenly
Father's knowledge," but they do fall, nevertheless.
The carcasses of some poor squirrels, however, the same that
frisked so merrily in the morning, which we had skinned and
embowelled for our dinner, we abandoned in disgust, with tardy
humanity, as too wretched a resource for any but starving men.
It was to perpetuate the practice of a barbarous era.  If they
had been larger, our crime had been less.  Their small red
bodies, little bundles of red tissue, mere gobbets of venison,
would not have "fattened fire." With a sudden impulse we threw
them away, and washed our hands, and boiled some rice for our
dinner.  "Behold the difference between the one who eateth flesh,
and him to whom it belonged!  The first hath a momentary
enjoyment, whilst the latter is deprived of existence!" "Who
would commit so great a crime against a poor animal, who is fed
only by the herbs which grow wild in the woods, and whose belly
is burnt up with hunger?" We remembered a picture of mankind in
the hunter age, chasing hares down the mountains; O me miserable!
Yet sheep and oxen are but larger squirrels, whose hides are
saved and meat is salted, whose souls perchance are not so large
in proportion to their bodies.
There should always be some flowering and maturing of the fruits
of nature in the cooking process.  Some simple dishes recommend
themselves to our imaginations as well as palates.  In parched
corn, for instance, there is a manifest sympathy between the
bursting seed and the more perfect developments of vegetable
life.  It is a perfect flower with its petals, like the houstonia
or anemone.  On my warm hearth these cerealian blossoms expanded;
here is the bank whereon they grew.  Perhaps some such visible
blessing would always attend the simple and wholesome repast.
