
                        "He knew of our haste,
     And immediately seizing a clod
     With his right hand, strove to give it
     As a chance stranger's gift.
     Nor did the hero disregard him, but leaping on the shore,
     Stretching hand to hand,
     Received the mystic clod.
     But I hear it sinking from the deck,
     Go with the sea brine
     At evening, accompanying the watery sea.
     Often indeed I urged the careless
     Menials to guard it, but their minds forgot.
     And now in this island the imperishable seed of spacious Libya
     Is spilled before its hour."
It is a beautiful fable, also related by Pindar, how Helius, or
the Sun, looked down into the sea one day,--when perchance his
rays were first reflected from some increasing glittering
sandbar,--and saw the fair and fruitful island of Rhodes
                "springing up from the bottom,
     Capable of feeding many men, and suitable for flocks;
and at the nod of Zeus,
             "The island sprang from the watery
     Sea; and the genial Father of penetrating beams,
     Ruler of fire-breathing horses, has it."
The shifting islands! who would not be willing that his house
should be undermined by such a foe!  The inhabitant of an island
can tell what currents formed the land which he cultivates; and
his earth is still being created or destroyed.  There before his
door, perchance, still empties the stream which brought down the
material of his farm ages before, and is still bringing it down
or washing it away,--the graceful, gentle robber!
Not long after this we saw the Piscataquoag, or Sparkling Water,
emptying in on our left, and heard the Falls of Amoskeag above.
Large quantities of lumber, as we read in the Gazetteer, were
still annually floated down the Piscataquoag to the Merrimack,
and there are many fine mill privileges on it.  Just above the
mouth of this river we passed the artificial falls where the
canals of the Manchester Manufacturing Company discharge
themselves into the Merrimack.  They are striking enough to have
a name, and, with the scenery of a Bashpish, would be visited
from far and near.  The water falls thirty or forty feet over
seven or eight steep and narrow terraces of stone, probably to
break its force, and is converted into one mass of foam.  This
canal-water did not seem to be the worse for the wear, but foamed
and fumed as purely, and boomed as savagely and impressively, as
a mountain torrent, and, though it came from under a factory, we
saw a rainbow here.  These are now the Amoskeag Falls, removed a
mile down-stream.  But we did not tarry to examine them minutely,
making haste to get past the village here collected, and out of
hearing of the hammer which was laying the foundation of another
Lowell on the banks.  At the time of our voyage Manchester was a
village of about two thousand inhabitants, where we landed for a
moment to get some cool water, and where an inhabitant told us
that he was accustomed to go across the river into Goffstown for
his water.  But now, as I have been told, and indeed have
witnessed, it contains fourteen thousand inhabitants.  From a
hill on the road between Goffstown and Hooksett, four miles
distant, I have seen a thunder-shower pass over, and the sun
break out and shine on a city there, where I had landed nine
years before in the fields; and there was waving the flag of its
Museum, where "the only perfect skeleton of a Greenland or river
whale in the United States" was to be seen, and I also read in
its directory of a "Manchester Athenaeum and Gallery of the Fine
Arts."
According to the Gazetteer, the descent of Amoskeag Falls, which
are the most considerable in the Merrimack, is fifty-four feet in
half a mile.  We locked ourselves through here with much ado,
surmounting the successive watery steps of this river's staircase
in the midst of a crowd of villagers, jumping into the canal to
their amusement, to save our boat from upsetting, and consuming
much river-water in our service.  Amoskeag, or Namaskeak, is said
to mean "great fishing-place." It was hereabouts that the Sachem
Wannalancet resided.  Tradition says that his tribe, when at war
with the Mohawks, concealed their provisions in the cavities of
the rocks in the upper part of these falls.  The Indians, who hid
their provisions in these holes, and affirmed "that God had cut
them out for that purpose," understood their origin and use
better than the Royal Society, who in their Transactions, in the
last century, speaking of these very holes, declare that "they
seem plainly to be artificial."  Similar "pot-holes" may be seen
at the Stone Flume on this river, on the Ottaway, at Bellows'
Falls on the Connecticut, and in the limestone rock at Shelburne
Falls on Deerfield River in Massachusetts, and more or less
generally about all falls.  Perhaps the most remarkable curiosity
of this kind in New England is the well-known Basin on the
Pemigewasset, one of the head-waters of this river, twenty by
thirty feet in extent and proportionably deep, with a smooth and
rounded brim, and filled with a cold, pellucid, and greenish
water.  At Amoskeag the river is divided into many separate
torrents and trickling rills by the rocks, and its volume is so
much reduced by the drain of the canals that it does not fill its
bed.  There are many pot-holes here on a rocky island which the
river washes over in high freshets.  As at Shelburne Falls, where
I first observed them, they are from one foot to four or five in
diameter, and as many in depth, perfectly round and regular, with
smooth and gracefully curved brims, like goblets.  Their origin
is apparent to the most careless observer.  A stone which the
current has washed down, meeting with obstacles, revolves as on a
pivot where it lies, gradually sinking in the course of centuries
deeper and deeper into the rock, and in new freshets receiving
the aid of fresh stones, which are drawn into this trap and
doomed to revolve there for an indefinite period, doing
Sisyphus-like penance for stony sins, until they either wear out,
or wear through the bottom of their prison, or else are released
by some revolution of nature.  There lie the stones of various
sizes, from a pebble to a foot or two in diameter, some of which
have rested from their labor only since the spring, and some
higher up which have lain still and dry for ages,--we noticed
some here at least sixteen feet above the present level of the
water,--while others are still revolving, and enjoy no respite at
any season.  In one instance, at Shelburne Falls, they have worn
quite through the rock, so that a portion of the river leaks
through in anticipation of the fall.  Some of these pot-holes at
Amoskeag, in a very hard brown-stone, had an oblong, cylindrical
stone of the same material loosely fitting them.  One, as much as
fifteen feet deep and seven or eight in diameter, which was worn
quite through to the water, had a huge rock of the same material,
smooth but of irregular form, lodged in it.  Everywhere there
were the rudiments or the wrecks of a dimple in the rock; the
rocky shells of whirlpools.  As if by force of example and
sympathy after so many lessons, the rocks, the hardest material,
had been endeavoring to whirl or flow into the forms of the most
fluid.  The finest workers in stone are not copper or steel
tools, but the gentle touches of air and water working at their
leisure with a liberal allowance of time.
Not only have some of these basins been forming for countless
ages, but others exist which must have been completed in a former
geological period.  In deepening the Pawtucket Canal, in 1822,
the workmen came to ledges with pot-holes in them, where probably
was once the bed of the river, and there are some, we are told,
in the town of Canaan in this State, with the stones still in
them, on the height of land between the Merrimack and
Connecticut, and nearly a thousand feet above these rivers,
proving that the mountains and the rivers have changed places.
There lie the stones which completed their revolutions perhaps
before thoughts began to revolve in the brain of man.  The
periods of Hindoo and Chinese history, though they reach back to
the time when the race of mortals is confounded with the race of
gods, are as nothing compared with the periods which these stones
have inscribed.  That which commenced a rock when time was young,
shall conclude a pebble in the unequal contest.  With such
expense of time and natural forces are our very paving-stones
produced.  They teach us lessons, these dumb workers; verily
there are "sermons in stones, and books in the running streams."
In these very holes the Indians hid their provisions; but now
there is no bread, but only its old neighbor stones at the
bottom.  Who knows how many races they have served thus?  By as
simple a law, some accidental by-law, perchance, our system
itself was made ready for its inhabitants.
These, and such as these, must be our antiquities, for lack of
human vestiges.  The monuments of heroes and the temples of the
gods which may once have stood on the banks of this river are
now, at any rate, returned to dust and primitive soil.  The
murmur of unchronicled nations has died away along these shores,
and once more Lowell and Manchester are on the trail of the
Indian.
The fact that Romans once inhabited her reflects no little
dignity on Nature herself; that from some particular hill the
Roman once looked out on the sea.  She need not be ashamed of the
vestiges of her children.  How gladly the antiquary informs us
that their vessels penetrated into this frith, or up that river
of some remote isle!  Their military monuments still remain on
the hills and under the sod of the valleys.  The oft-repeated
Roman story is written in still legible characters in every
quarter of the Old World, and but to-day, perchance, a new coin
is dug up whose inscription repeats and confirms their fame.
Some "_Judaea Capta_" with a woman mourning under a palm-tree,
with silent argument and demonstration confirms the pages of
history.
   "Rome living was the world's sole ornament;
    And dead is now the world's sole monument.
       .        .        .       .       .
    With her own weight down pressed now she lies,
    And by her heaps her hugeness testifies."
If one doubts whether Grecian valor and patriotism are not a
fiction of the poets, he may go to Athens and see still upon the
walls of the temple of Minerva the circular marks made by the
shields taken from the enemy in the Persian war, which were
suspended there.  We have not far to seek for living and
unquestionable evidence.  The very dust takes shape and confirms
some story which we had read.  As Fuller said, commenting on the
zeal of Camden, "A broken urn is a whole evidence; or an old gate
still surviving out of which the city is run out."  When Solon
endeavored to prove that Salamis had formerly belonged to the
Athenians, and not to the Megareans, he caused the tombs to be
opened, and showed that the inhabitants of Salamis turned the
faces of their dead to the same side with the Athenians, but the
Megareans to the opposite side.  There they were to be
interrogated.
Some minds are as little logical or argumentative as nature; they
can offer no reason or "guess," but they exhibit the solemn and
incontrovertible fact.  If a historical question arises, they
cause the tombs to be opened.  Their silent and practical logic
convinces the reason and the understanding at the same time.  Of
such sort is always the only pertinent question and the only
satisfactory reply.
Our own country furnishes antiquities as ancient and durable, and
as useful, as any; rocks at least as well covered with lichens,
and a soil which, if it is virgin, is but virgin mould, the very
dust of nature.  What if we cannot read Rome, or Greece, Etruria,
or Carthage, or Egypt, or Babylon, on these; are our cliffs bare?
The lichen on the rocks is a rude and simple shield which
beginning and imperfect Nature suspended there.  Still hangs her
wrinkled trophy.  And here too the poet's eye may still detect
the brazen nails which fastened Time's inscriptions, and if he
has the gift, decipher them by this clew.  The walls that fence
our fields, as well as modern Rome, and not less the Parthenon
itself, are all built of _ruins_.  Here may be heard the din of
rivers, and ancient winds which have long since lost their names
sough through our woods;--the first faint sounds of spring, older
than the summer of Athenian glory, the titmouse lisping in the
wood, the jay's scream, and blue-bird's warble, and the hum of
     "bees that fly
     About the laughing blossoms of sallowy."
Here is the gray dawn for antiquity, and our to-morrow's future
should be at least paulo-post to theirs which we have put behind
us.  There are the red-maple and birchen leaves, old runes which
are not yet deciphered; catkins, pine-cones, vines, oak-leaves,
and acorns; the very things themselves, and not their forms in
stone,--so much the more ancient and venerable.  And even to the
current summer there has come down tradition of a hoary-headed
master of all art, who once filled every field and grove with
statues and god-like architecture, of every design which Greece
has lately copied; whose ruins are now mingled with the dust, and
not one block remains upon another.  The century sun and
unwearied rain have wasted them, till not one fragment from that
quarry now exists; and poets perchance will feign that gods sent
down the material from heaven.
What though the traveller tell us of the ruins of Egypt, are we
so sick or idle, that we must sacrifice our America and to-day to
some man's ill-remembered and indolent story?  Carnac and Luxor
are but names, or if their skeletons remain, still more desert
sand, and at length a wave of the Mediterranean Sea are needed to
wash away the filth that attaches to their grandeur.  Carnac!
Carnac! here is Carnac for me.  I behold the columns of a larger
and purer temple.
     This is my Carnac, whose unmeasured dome
     Shelters the measuring art and measurer's home.
     Behold these flowers, let us be up with time,
     Not dreaming of three thousand years ago,
     Erect ourselves and let those columns lie,
     Not stoop to raise a foil against the sky.
     Where is the spirit of that time but in
     This present day, perchance the present line?
     Three thousand years ago are not agone,
     They are still lingering in this summer morn,
     And Memnon's Mother sprightly greets us now,
     Wearing her youthful radiance on her brow.
     If Carnac's columns still stand on the plain,
     To enjoy our opportunities they remain.
In these parts dwelt the famous Sachem Pasaconaway, who was seen
by Gookin "at Pawtucket, when he was about one hundred and twenty
years old."  He was reputed a wise man and a powwow, and
restrained his people from going to war with the English.  They
believed "that he could make water burn, rocks move, and trees
dance, and metamorphose himself into a flaming man; that in
winter he could raise a green leaf out of the ashes of a dry one,
and produce a living snake from the skin of a dead one, and many
similar miracles." In 1660, according to Gookin, at a great feast
and dance, he made his farewell speech to his people, in which he
said, that as he was not likely to see them met together again,
he would leave them this word of advice, to take heed how they
quarrelled with their English neighbors, for though they might do
them much mischief at first, it would prove the means of their
own destruction.  He himself, he said, had been as much an enemy
to the English at their first coming as any, and had used all his
arts to destroy them, or at least to prevent their settlement,
but could by no means effect it.  Gookin thought that he
"possibly might have such a kind of spirit upon him as was upon
Balaam, who in xxiii.  Numbers, 23, said `Surely, there is no
enchantment against Jacob, neither is there any divination
against Israel.'"  His son Wannalancet carefully followed his
advice, and when Philip's War broke out, he withdrew his
followers to Penacook, now Concord in New Hampshire, from the
scene of the war.  On his return afterwards, he visited the
minister of Chelmsford, and, as is stated in the history of that
town, "wished to know whether Chelmsford had suffered much during
the war; and being informed that it had not, and that God should
be thanked for it, Wannalancet replied, `Me next.'"
Manchester was the residence of John Stark, a hero of two wars,
and survivor of a third, and at his death the last but one of the
American generals of the Revolution.  He was born in the
adjoining town of Londonderry, then Nutfield, in 1728.  As early
as 1752, he was taken prisoner by the Indians while hunting in
the wilderness near Baker's River; he performed notable service
as a captain of rangers in the French war; commanded a regiment
of the New Hampshire militia at the battle of Bunker Hill; and
fought and won the battle of Bennington in 1777.  He was past
service in the last war, and died here in 1822, at the age of 94.
His monument stands upon the second bank of the river, about a
mile and a half above the falls, and commands a prospect several
miles up and down the Merrimack.  It suggested how much more
impressive in the landscape is the tomb of a hero than the
dwellings of the inglorious living.  Who is most dead,--a hero by
whose monument you stand, or his descendants of whom you have
never heard?
The graves of Pasaconaway and Wannalancet are marked by no
monument on the bank of their native river.
Every town which we passed, if we may believe the Gazetteer, had
been the residence of some great man.  But though we knocked at
many doors, and even made particular inquiries, we could not find
that there were any now living.  Under the head of Litchfield we
read:--
  "The Hon.  Wyseman Clagett closed his life in this town."
  According to another, "He was a classical scholar, a good
  lawyer, a wit, and a poet." We saw his old gray house just
  below Great Nesenkeag Brook.--Under the head of Merrimack:
  "Hon.  Mathew Thornton, one of the signers of the Declaration
  of American Independence, resided many years in this town." His
  house too we saw from the river.--"Dr.  Jonathan Gove, a man
  distinguished for his urbanity, his talents and professional
  skill, resided in this town [Goffstown].  He was one of the
  oldest practitioners of medicine in the county.  He was many
  years an active member of the legislature."--"Hon.  Robert
  Means, who died Jan. 24, 1823, at the age of 80, was for a long
  period a resident in Amherst.  He was a native of Ireland.  In
  1764 he came to this country, where, by his industry and
  application to business, he acquired a large property, and
  great respect."--"William Stinson [one of the first settlers of
  Dunbarton], born in Ireland, came to Londonderry with his
  father.  He was much respected and was a useful man.  James
  Rogers was from Ireland, and father to Major Robert Rogers.  He
  was shot in the woods, being mistaken for a bear."--"Rev.
  Matthew Clark, second minister of Londonderry, was a native of
  Ireland, who had in early life been an officer in the army, and
  distinguished himself in the defence of the city of
  Londonderry, when besieged by the army of King James II.  A.
  D.  1688.  He afterwards relinquished a military life for the
  clerical profession.  He possessed a strong mind, marked by a
  considerable degree of eccentricity.  He died Jan. 25, 1735,
  and was borne to the grave, at his particular request, by his
  former companions in arms, of whom there were a considerable
  number among the early settlers of this town; several of them
  had been made free from taxes throughout the British dominions
  by King William, for their bravery in that memorable
  siege."--Col.  George Reid and Capt. David M'Clary, also
  citizens of Londonderry, were "distinguished and brave"
  officers.--"Major Andrew M'Clary, a native of this town
  [Epsom], fell at the battle of Breed's Hill ."--Many of these
  heroes, like the illustrious Roman, were ploughing when the
  news of the massacre at Lexington arrived, and straightway left
  their ploughs in the furrow, and repaired to the scene of
  action.  Some miles from where we now were, there once stood a
  guide-post on which were the words, "3 miles to Squire
  MacGaw's."
But generally speaking, the land is now, at any rate, very barren
of men, and we doubt if there are as many hundreds as we read
of.  It may be that we stood too near.
