
     Is't then too late the damage to repair?
     Distance, forsooth, from my weak grasp hath reft
     The empty husk, and clutched the useless tare,
     But in my hands the wheat and kernel left.
     If I but love that virtue which he is,
     Though it be scented in the morning air,
     Still shall we be truest acquaintances,
     Nor mortals know a sympathy more rare.
Friendship is evanescent in every man's experience, and
remembered like heat lightning in past summers.  Fair and
flitting like a summer cloud;--there is always some vapor in the
air, no matter how long the drought; there are even April
showers.  Surely from time to time, for its vestiges never
depart, it floats through our atmosphere.  It takes place, like
vegetation in so many materials, because there is such a law, but
always without permanent form, though ancient and familiar as the
sun and moon, and as sure to come again.  The heart is forever
inexperienced.  They silently gather as by magic, these never
failing, never quite deceiving visions, like the bright and
fleecy clouds in the calmest and clearest days.  The Friend is
some fair floating isle of palms eluding the mariner in Pacific
seas.  Many are the dangers to be encountered, equinoctial gales
and coral reefs, ere he may sail before the constant trades.  But
who would not sail through mutiny and storm, even over Atlantic
waves, to reach the fabulous retreating shores of some continent
man?  The imagination still clings to the faintest tradition of
                 THE ATLANTIDES.
     The smothered streams of love, which flow
     More bright than Phlegethon, more low,
     Island us ever, like the sea,
     In an Atlantic mystery.
     Our fabled shores none ever reach,
     No mariner has found our beach,
     Scarcely our mirage now is seen,
     And neighboring waves with floating green,
     Yet still the oldest charts contain
     Some dotted outline of our main;
     In ancient times midsummer days
     Unto the western islands' gaze,
     To Teneriffe and the Azores,
     Have shown our faint and cloud-like shores.
     But sink not yet, ye desolate isles,
     Anon your coast with commerce smiles,
     And richer freights ye'll furnish far
     Than Africa or Malabar.
     Be fair, be fertile evermore,
     Ye rumored but untrodden shore,
     Princes and monarchs will contend
     Who first unto your land shall send,
     And pawn the jewels of the crown
     To call your distant soil their own.
Columbus has sailed westward of these isles by the mariner's
compass, but neither he nor his successors have found them.  We
are no nearer than Plato was.  The earnest seeker and hopeful
discoverer of this New World always haunts the outskirts of his
time, and walks through the densest crowd uninterrupted, and as
it were in a straight line.
      Sea and land are but his neighbors,
      And companions in his labors,
      Who on the ocean's verge and firm land's end
      Doth long and truly seek his Friend.
      Many men dwell far inland,
      But he alone sits on the strand.
      Whether he ponders men or books,
      Always still he seaward looks,
      Marine news he ever reads,
      And the slightest glances heeds,
      Feels the sea breeze on his cheek,
      At each word the landsmen speak,
      In every companion's eye
      A sailing vessel doth descry;
      In the ocean's sullen roar
      From some distant port he hears,
      Of wrecks upon a distant shore,
      And the ventures of past years.
Who does not walk on the plain as amid the columns of Tadmore of
the desert?  There is on the earth no institution which
Friendship has established; it is not taught by any religion; no
scripture contains its maxims.  It has no temple, nor even a
solitary column.  There goes a rumor that the earth is inhabited,
but the shipwrecked mariner has not seen a footprint on the
shore.  The hunter has found only fragments of pottery and the
monuments of inhabitants.
However, our fates at least are social.  Our courses do not
diverge; but as the web of destiny is woven it is fulled, and we
are cast more and more into the centre.  Men naturally, though
feebly, seek this alliance, and their actions faintly foretell
it.  We are inclined to lay the chief stress on likeness and not
on difference, and in foreign bodies we admit that there are many
degrees of warmth below blood heat, but none of cold above it.
Mencius says: "If one loses a fowl or a dog, he knows well how to
seek them again; if one loses the sentiments of his heart, he
does not know how to seek them again.  .  .  .  The duties of
practical philosophy consist only in seeking after those
sentiments of the heart which we have lost; that is all."
One or two persons come to my house from time to time, there
being proposed to them the faint possibility of intercourse.
They are as full as they are silent, and wait for my plectrum to
stir the strings of their lyre.  If they could ever come to the
length of a sentence, or hear one, on that ground they are
dreaming of!  They speak faintly, and do not obtrude themselves.
They have heard some news, which none, not even they themselves,
can impart.  It is a wealth they can bear about them which can be
expended in various ways.  What came they out to seek?
No word is oftener on the lips of men than Friendship, and indeed
no thought is more familiar to their aspirations.  All men are
dreaming of it, and its drama, which is always a tragedy, is
enacted daily.  It is the secret of the universe.  You may thread
the town, you may wander the country, and none shall ever speak
of it, yet thought is everywhere busy about it, and the idea of
what is possible in this respect affects our behavior toward all
new men and women, and a great many old ones.  Nevertheless, I
can remember only two or three essays on this subject in all
literature.  No wonder that the Mythology, and Arabian Nights,
and Shakespeare, and Scott's novels entertain us,--we are poets
and fablers and dramatists and novelists ourselves.  We are
continually acting a part in a more interesting drama than any
written.  We are dreaming that our Friends are our _Friends_ ,
and that we are our Friends' _Friends_.  Our actual Friends are
but distant relations of those to whom we are pledged.  We never
exchange more than three words with a Friend in our lives on that
level to which our thoughts and feelings almost habitually rise.
One goes forth prepared to say, "Sweet Friends!" and the
salutation is, "Damn your eyes!"  But never mind; faint heart
never won true Friend.  O my Friend, may it come to pass once,
that when you are my Friend I may be yours.
Of what use the friendliest dispositions even, if there are
no hours given to Friendship, if it is forever postponed to
unimportant duties and relations?  Friendship is first, Friendship
last.  But it is equally impossible to forget our Friends, and to
make them answer to our ideal.  When they say farewell, then
indeed we begin to keep them company.  How often we find
ourselves turning our backs on our actual Friends, that we may go
and meet their ideal cousins.  I would that I were worthy to be
any man's Friend.
What is commonly honored with the name of Friendship is no very
profound or powerful instinct.  Men do not, after all, _love_
their Friends greatly.  I do not often see the farmers made seers
and wise to the verge of insanity by their Friendship for one
another.  They are not often transfigured and translated by love
in each other's presence.  I do not observe them purified,
refined, and elevated by the love of a man.  If one abates a
little the price of his wood, or gives a neighbor his vote at
town-meeting, or a barrel of apples, or lends him his wagon
frequently, it is esteemed a rare instance of Friendship.  Nor do
the farmers' wives lead lives consecrated to Friendship.  I do
not see the pair of farmer Friends of either sex prepared to
stand against the world.  There are only two or three couples in
history.  To say that a man is your Friend, means commonly no
more than this, that he is not your enemy.  Most contemplate only
what would be the accidental and trifling advantages of
Friendship, as that the Friend can assist in time of need, by his
substance, or his influence, or his counsel; but he who foresees
such advantages in this relation proves himself blind to its real
advantage, or indeed wholly inexperienced in the relation itself.
Such services are particular and menial, compared with the
perpetual and all-embracing service which it is.  Even the utmost
good-will and harmony and practical kindness are not sufficient
for Friendship, for Friends do not live in harmony merely, as
some say, but in melody.  We do not wish for Friends to feed and
clothe our bodies,--neighbors are kind enough for that,--but to
do the like office to our spirits.  For this few are rich enough,
however well disposed they may be.  For the most part we stupidly
confound one man with another.  The dull distinguish only races
or nations, or at most classes, but the wise man, individuals.
To his Friend a man's peculiar character appears in every feature
and in every action, and it is thus drawn out and improved by
him.
Think of the importance of Friendship in the education of men.
     "He that hath love and judgment too,
     Sees more than any other doe."
It will make a man honest; it will make him a hero; it will make
him a saint.  It is the state of the just dealing with the just,
the magnanimous with the magnanimous, the sincere with the
sincere, man with man.
And it is well said by another poet,
     "Why love among the virtues is not known,
     Is that love is them all contract in one."
All the abuses which are the object of reform with the philanthropist,
 the statesman, and the housekeeper are unconsciously amended in
the intercourse of Friends.  A Friend is one who incessantly pays
us the compliment of expecting from us all the virtues, and who
can appreciate them in us.  It takes two to speak the truth,--one
to speak, and another to hear.  How can one treat with
magnanimity mere wood and stone?  If we dealt only with the false
and dishonest, we should at last forget how to speak truth.  Only
lovers know the value and magnanimity of truth, while traders
prize a cheap honesty, and neighbors and acquaintance a cheap
civility.  In our daily intercourse with men, our nobler
faculties are dormant and suffered to rust.  None will pay us the
compliment to expect nobleness from us.  Though we have gold to
give, they demand only copper.  We ask our neighbor to suffer
himself to be dealt with truly, sincerely, nobly; but he answers
no by his deafness.  He does not even hear this prayer.  He says
practically, I will be content if you treat me as "no better than
I should be," as deceitful, mean, dishonest, and selfish.  For
the most part, we are contented so to deal and to be dealt with,
and we do not think that for the mass of men there is any truer
and nobler relation possible.  A man may have _good_ neighbors,
so called, and acquaintances, and even companions, wife, parents,
brothers, sisters, children, who meet himself and one another on
this ground only.  The State does not demand justice of its
members, but thinks that it succeeds very well with the least
degree of it, hardly more than rogues practise; and so do the
neighborhood and the family.  What is commonly called Friendship
even is only a little more honor among rogues.
But sometimes we are said to _love_ another, that is, to stand in
a true relation to him, so that we give the best to, and receive
the best from, him.  Between whom there is hearty truth, there is
love; and in proportion to our truthfulness and confidence in one
another, our lives are divine and miraculous, and answer to our
ideal.  There are passages of affection in our intercourse with
mortal men and women, such as no prophecy had taught us to
expect, which transcend our earthly life, and anticipate Heaven
for us.  What is this Love that may come right into the middle of
a prosaic Goffstown day, equal to any of the gods? that discovers
a new world, fair and fresh and eternal, occupying the place of
the old one, when to the common eye a dust has settled on the
universe? which world cannot else be reached, and does not exist.
What other words, we may almost ask, are memorable and worthy to
be repeated than those which love has inspired?  It is wonderful
that they were ever uttered.  They are few and rare, indeed, but,
like a strain of music, they are incessantly repeated and
modulated by the memory.  All other words crumble off with the
stucco which overlies the heart.  We should not dare to repeat
these now aloud.  We are not competent to hear them at all times.
