
The books for young people say a great deal about the _selection_
of Friends; it is because they really have nothing to say about
_Friends_.  They mean associates and confidants merely.  "Know
that the contrariety of foe and Friend proceeds from God."
Friendship takes place between those who have an affinity for one
another, and is a perfectly natural and inevitable result.  No
professions nor advances will avail.  Even speech, at first,
necessarily has nothing to do with it; but it follows after
silence, as the buds in the graft do not put forth into leaves
till long after the graft has taken.  It is a drama in which the
parties have no part to act.  We are all Mussulmen and fatalists
in this respect.  Impatient and uncertain lovers think that they
must say or do something kind whenever they meet; they must never
be cold.  But they who are Friends do not do what they _think_
they must, but what they _must_.  Even their Friendship is to
some extent but a sublime phenomenon to them.
The true and not despairing Friend will address his Friend in
some such terms as these.
"I never asked thy leave to let me love thee,--I have a right.  I
love thee not as something private and personal, which is _your
own_, but as something universal and worthy of love, _which I
have found_.  O, how I think of you!  You are purely good, --you
are infinitely good.  I can trust you forever.  I did not think
that humanity was so rich.  Give me an opportunity to live."
"You are the fact in a fiction,--you are the truth more strange
and admirable than fiction.  Consent only to be what you are.  I
alone will never stand in your way."
"This is what I would like,--to be as intimate with you as our
spirits are intimate,--respecting you as I respect my ideal.
Never to profane one another by word or action, even by a
thought.  Between us, if necessary, let there be no
acquaintance."
"I have discovered you; how can you be concealed from me?"
The Friend asks no return but that his Friend will religiously
accept and wear and not disgrace his apotheosis of him.  They
cherish each other's hopes.  They are kind to each other's
dreams.
Though the poet says, "'Tis the pre-eminence of Friendship to
impute excellence," yet we can never praise our Friend, nor
esteem him praiseworthy, nor let him think that he can please us
by any _behavior_, or ever _treat_ us well enough.  That kindness
which has so good a reputation elsewhere can least of all consist
with this relation, and no such affront can be offered to a
Friend, as a conscious good-will, a friendliness which is not a
necessity of the Friend's nature.
The sexes are naturally most strongly attracted to one another,
by constant constitutional differences, and are most commonly and
surely the complements of each other.  How natural and easy it is
for man to secure the attention of woman to what interests
himself.  Men and women of equal culture, thrown together, are
sure to be of a certain value to one another, more than men to
men.  There exists already a natural disinterestedness and
liberality in such society, and I think that any man will more
confidently carry his favorite books to read to some circle of
intelligent women, than to one of his own sex.  The visit of man
to man is wont to be an interruption, but the sexes naturally
expect one another.  Yet Friendship is no respecter of sex; and
perhaps it is more rare between the sexes than between two of the
same sex.
Friendship is, at any rate, a relation of perfect equality.  It
cannot well spare any outward sign of equal obligation and
advantage.  The nobleman can never have a Friend among his
retainers, nor the king among his subjects.  Not that the parties
to it are in all respects equal, but they are equal in all that
respects or affects their Friendship.  The one's love is exactly
balanced and represented by the other's.  Persons are only the
vessels which contain the nectar, and the hydrostatic paradox is
the symbol of love's law.  It finds its level and rises to its
fountain-head in all breasts, and its slenderest column balances
the ocean.
     "And love as well the shepherd can
     As can the mighty nobleman."
The one sex is not, in this respect, more tender than the other.
A hero's love is as delicate as a maiden's.
Confucius said, "Never contract Friendship with a man who is not
better than thyself." It is the merit and preservation of
Friendship, that it takes place on a level higher than the actual
characters of the parties would seem to warrant.  The rays of
light come to us in such a curve that every man whom we meet
appears to be taller than he actually is.  Such foundation has
civility.  My Friend is that one whom I can associate with my
choicest thought.  I always assign to him a nobler employment in
my absence than I ever find him engaged in; and I imagine that
the hours which he devotes to me were snatched from a higher
society.  The sorest insult which I ever received from a Friend
was, when he behaved with the license which only long and cheap
acquaintance allows to one's faults, in my presence, without
shame, and still addressed me in friendly accents.  Beware, lest
thy Friend learn at last to tolerate one frailty of thine, and so
an obstacle be raised to the progress of thy love.  There are
times when we have had enough even of our Friends, when we begin
inevitably to profane one another, and must withdraw religiously
into solitude and silence, the better to prepare ourselves for a
loftier intimacy.  Silence is the ambrosial night in the
intercourse of Friends, in which their sincerity is recruited and
takes deeper root.
Friendship is never established as an understood relation.  Do
you demand that I be less your Friend that you may know it?  Yet
what right have I to think that another cherishes so rare a
sentiment for me?  It is a miracle which requires constant
proofs.  It is an exercise of the purest imagination and the
rarest faith.  It says by a silent but eloquent behavior,--"I
will be so related to thee as thou canst imagine; even so thou
mayest believe.  I will spend truth,--all my wealth on
thee,"--and the Friend responds silently through his nature and
life, and treats his Friend with the same divine courtesy.  He
knows us literally through thick and thin.  He never asks for a
sign of love, but can distinguish it by the features which it
naturally wears.  We never need to stand upon ceremony with him
with regard to his visits.  Wait not till I invite thee, but
observe that I am glad to see thee when thou comest.  It would be
paying too dear for thy visit to ask for it.  Where my Friend
lives there are all riches and every attraction, and no slight
obstacle can keep me from him.  Let me never have to tell thee
what I have not to tell.  Let our intercourse be wholly above
ourselves, and draw us up to it.
The language of Friendship is not words, but meanings.  It is an
intelligence above language.  One imagines endless conversations
with his Friend, in which the tongue shall be loosed, and
thoughts be spoken without hesitancy or end; but the experience
is commonly far otherwise.  Acquaintances may come and go, and
have a word ready for every occasion; but what puny word shall he
utter whose very breath is thought and meaning?  Suppose you go
to bid farewell to your Friend who is setting out on a journey;
what other outward sign do you know than to shake his hand?  Have
you any palaver ready for him then? any box of salve to commit to
his pocket?  any particular message to send by him?  any
statement which you had forgotten to make?--as if you could
forget anything.--No, it is much that you take his hand and say
Farewell; that you could easily omit; so far custom has
prevailed.  It is even painful, if he is to go, that he should
linger so long.  If he must go, let him go quickly.  Have you any
_last_ words?  Alas, it is only the word of words, which you have
so long sought and found not; _you_ have not a _first_ word yet.
There are few even whom I should venture to call earnestly by
their most proper names.  A name pronounced is the recognition of
the individual to whom it belongs.  He who can pronounce my name
aright, he can call me, and is entitled to my love and service.
Yet reserve is the freedom and abandonment of lovers.  It is the
reserve of what is hostile or indifferent in their natures, to
give place to what is kindred and harmonious.
The violence of love is as much to be dreaded as that of hate.
When it is durable it is serene and equable.  Even its famous
pains begin only with the ebb of love, for few are indeed lovers,
though all would fain be.  It is one proof of a man's fitness for
Friendship that he is able to do without that which is cheap and
passionate.  A true Friendship is as wise as it is tender.  The
parties to it yield implicitly to the guidance of their love, and
know no other law nor kindness.  It is not extravagant and
insane, but what it says is something established henceforth, and
will bear to be stereotyped.  It is a truer truth, it is better
and fairer news, and no time will ever shame it, or prove it
false.  This is a plant which thrives best in a temperate zone,
where summer and winter alternate with one another.  The Friend
is a _necessarius_, and meets his Friend on homely ground; not on
carpets and cushions, but on the ground and on rocks they will
sit, obeying the natural and primitive laws.  They will meet
without any outcry, and part without loud sorrow.  Their relation
implies such qualities as the warrior prizes; for it takes a
valor to open the hearts of men as well as the gates of castles.
It is not an idle sympathy and mutual consolation merely, but a
heroic sympathy of aspiration and endeavor.
     "When manhood shall be matched so
       That fear can take no place,
     Then weary _works_ make warriors
       Each other to embrace."
The Friendship which Wawatam testified for Henry the fur-trader,
as described in the latter's "Adventures," so almost bare and
leafless, yet not blossomless nor fruitless, is remembered with
satisfaction and security.  The stern, imperturbable warrior,
after fasting, solitude, and mortification of body, comes to the
white man's lodge, and affirms that he is the white brother whom
he saw in his dream, and adopts him henceforth.  He buries the
hatchet as it regards his friend, and they hunt and feast and
make maple-sugar together.  "Metals unite from fluxility; birds
and beasts from motives of convenience; fools from fear and
stupidity; and just men at sight."  If Wawatam would taste the
"white man's milk" with his tribe, or take his bowl of human
broth made of the trader's fellow-countrymen, he first finds a
place of safety for his Friend, whom he has rescued from a
similar fate.  At length, after a long winter of undisturbed and
happy intercourse in the family of the chieftain in the
wilderness, hunting and fishing, they return in the spring to
Michilimackinac to dispose of their furs; and it becomes
necessary for Wawatam to take leave of his Friend at the Isle aux
Outardes, when the latter, to avoid his enemies, proceeded to the
Sault de Sainte Marie, supposing that they were to be separated
for a short time only.  "We now exchanged farewells," says Henry,
"with an emotion entirely reciprocal.  I did not quit the lodge
without the most grateful sense of the many acts of goodness
which I had experienced in it, nor without the sincerest respect
for the virtues which I had witnessed among its members.  All the
family accompanied me to the beach; and the canoe had no sooner
put off than Wawatam commenced an address to the Kichi Manito,
beseeching him to take care of me, his brother, till we should
next meet.  We had proceeded to too great a distance to allow of
our hearing his voice, before Wawatam had ceased to offer up his
prayers." We never hear of him again.
Friendship is not so kind as is imagined; it has not much human
blood in it, but consists with a certain disregard for men and
their erections, the Christian duties and humanities, while it
purifies the air like electricity.  There may be the sternest
tragedy in the relation of two more than usually innocent and
true to their highest instincts.  We may call it an essentially
heathenish intercourse, free and irresponsible in its nature, and
practising all the virtues gratuitously.  It is not the highest
sympathy merely, but a pure and lofty society, a fragmentary and
godlike intercourse of ancient date, still kept up at intervals,
which, remembering itself, does not hesitate to disregard the
humbler rights and duties of humanity.  It requires immaculate
and godlike qualities full-grown, and exists at all only by
condescension and anticipation of the remotest future.  We love
nothing which is merely good and not fair, if such a thing is
possible.  Nature puts some kind of blossom before every fruit,
not simply a calyx behind it.  When the Friend comes out of his
heathenism and superstition, and breaks his idols, being
converted by the precepts of a newer testament; when he forgets
his mythology, and treats his Friend like a Christian, or as he
can afford; then Friendship ceases to be Friendship, and becomes
charity; that principle which established the almshouse is now
beginning with its charity at home, and establishing an almshouse
and pauper relations there.
As for the number which this society admits, it is at any rate to
be begun with one, the noblest and greatest that we know, and
whether the world will ever carry it further, whether, as Chaucer
affirms,
     "There be mo sterres in the skie than a pair,"
remains to be proved;
     "And certaine he is well begone
     Among a thousand that findeth one."
We shall not surrender ourselves heartily to any while we are
conscious that another is more deserving of our love.  Yet
Friendship does not stand for numbers; the Friend does not count
his Friends on his fingers; they are not numerable.  The more
there are included by this bond, if they are indeed included, the
rarer and diviner the quality of the love that binds them.  I am
ready to believe that as private and intimate a relation may
exist by which three are embraced, as between two.  Indeed, we
cannot have too many friends; the virtue which we appreciate we
to some extent appropriate, so that thus we are made at last more
fit for every relation of life.  A base Friendship is of a
narrowing and exclusive tendency, but a noble one is not
exclusive; its very superfluity and dispersed love is the
humanity which sweetens society, and sympathizes with foreign
nations; for though its foundations are private, it is, in
effect, a public affair and a public advantage, and the Friend,
more than the father of a family, deserves well of the state.
