
The only danger in Friendship is that it will end.  It is a
delicate plant, though a native.  The least unworthiness, even if
it be unknown to one's self, vitiates it.  Let the Friend know
that those faults which he observes in his Friend his own faults
attract.  There is no rule more invariable than that we are paid
for our suspicions by finding what we suspected.  By our narrowness
and prejudices we say, I will have so much and such of you, my
Friend, no more.  Perhaps there are none charitable, none
disinterested, none wise, noble, and heroic enough, for a true
and lasting Friendship.
I sometimes hear my Friends complain finely that I do not
appreciate their fineness.  I shall not tell them whether I do or
not.  As if they expected a vote of thanks for every fine thing
which they uttered or did.  Who knows but it was finely
appreciated.  It may be that your silence was the finest thing of
the two.  There are some things which a man never speaks of,
which are much finer kept silent about.  To the highest
communications we only lend a silent ear.  Our finest relations
are not simply kept silent about, but buried under a positive
depth of silence never to be revealed.  It may be that we are not
even yet acquainted.  In human intercourse the tragedy begins,
not when there is misunderstanding about words, but when silence
is not understood.  Then there can never be an explanation.  What
avails it that another loves you, if he does not understand you?
Such love is a curse.  What sort of companions are they who are
presuming always that their silence is more expressive than
yours?  How foolish, and inconsiderate, and unjust, to conduct as
if you were the only party aggrieved!  Has not your Friend always
equal ground of complaint?  No doubt my Friends sometimes speak
to me in vain, but they do not know what things I hear which they
are not aware that they have spoken.  I know that I have
frequently disappointed them by not giving them words when they
expected them, or such as they expected.  Whenever I see my
Friend I speak to him; but the expecter, the man with the ears,
is not he.  They will complain too that you are hard.  O ye that
would have the cocoa-nut wrong side outwards, when next I weep I
will let you know.  They ask for words and deeds, when a true
relation is word and deed.  If they know not of these things, how
can they be informed?  We often forbear to confess our feelings,
not from pride, but for fear that we could not continue to love
the one who required us to give such proof of our affection.
I know a woman who possesses a restless and intelligent mind,
interested in her own culture, and earnest to enjoy the highest
possible advantages, and I meet her with pleasure as a natural
person who not a little provokes me, and I suppose is stimulated
in turn by myself.  Yet our acquaintance plainly does not attain
to that degree of confidence and sentiment which women, which
all, in fact, covet.  I am glad to help her, as I am helped by
her; I like very well to know her with a sort of stranger's
privilege, and hesitate to visit her often, like her other
Friends.  My nature pauses here, I do not well know why.  Perhaps
she does not make the highest demand on me, a religious demand.
Some, with whose prejudices or peculiar bias I have no sympathy,
yet inspire me with confidence, and I trust that they confide in
me also as a religious heathen at least,--a good Greek.  I, too,
have principles as well founded as their own.  If this person
could conceive that, without wilfulness, I associate with her as
far as our destinies are coincident, as far as our Good Geniuses
permit, and still value such intercourse, it would be a grateful
assurance to me.  I feel as if I appeared careless, indifferent,
and without principle to her, not expecting more, and yet not
content with less.  If she could know that I make an infinite
demand on myself, as well as on all others, she would see that
this true though incomplete intercourse, is infinitely better
than a more unreserved but falsely grounded one, without the
principle of growth in it.  For a companion, I require one who
will make an equal demand on me with my own genius.  Such a one
will always be rightly tolerant.  It is suicide, and corrupts
good manners to welcome any less than this.  I value and trust
those who love and praise my aspiration rather than my
performance.  If you would not stop to look at me, but look
whither I am looking, and farther, then my education could not
dispense with your company.
     My love must be as free
        As is the eagle's wing,
     Hovering o'er land and sea
        And everything.
     I must not dim my eye
        In thy saloon,
     I must not leave my sky
        And nightly moon.
     Be not the fowler's net
        Which stays my flight,
     And craftily is set
        T'allure the sight.
     But be the favoring gale
        That bears me on,
     And still doth fill my sail
        When thou art gone.
     I cannot leave my sky
        For thy caprice,
     True love would soar as high
        As heaven is.
     The eagle would not brook
        Her mate thus won,
     Who trained his eye to look
        Beneath the sun.
Few things are more difficult than to help a Friend in matters
which do not require the aid of Friendship, but only a cheap and
trivial service, if your Friendship wants the basis of a thorough
practical acquaintance.  I stand in the friendliest relation, on
social and spiritual grounds, to one who does not perceive what
practical skill I have, but when he seeks my assistance in such
matters, is wholly ignorant of that one with whom he deals; does
not use my skill, which in such matters is much greater than his,
but only my hands.  I know another, who, on the contrary, is
remarkable for his discrimination in this respect; who knows how
to make use of the talents of others when he does not possess the
same; knows when not to look after or oversee, and stops short at
his man.  It is a rare pleasure to serve him, which all laborers
know.  I am not a little pained by the other kind of treatment.
It is as if, after the friendliest and most ennobling intercourse,
your Friend should use you as a hammer, and drive a nail with
your head, all in good faith; notwithstanding that you are a
tolerable carpenter, as well as his good Friend, and would use a
hammer cheerfully in his service.  This want of perception is a
defect which all the virtues of the heart cannot supply:--
     The Good how can we trust?
     Only the Wise are just.
     The Good we use,
     The Wise we cannot choose.
     These there are none above;
     The Good they know and love,
     But are not known again
     By those of lesser ken.
     They do not charm us with their eyes,
     But they transfix with their advice;
     No partial sympathy they feel,
     With private woe or private weal,
     But with the universe joy and sigh,
     Whose knowledge is their sympathy.
Confucius said: "To contract ties of Friendship with any one, is
to contract Friendship with his virtue.  There ought not to be
any other motive in Friendship."  But men wish us to contract
Friendship with their vice also.  I have a Friend who wishes me
to see that to be right which I know to be wrong.  But if
Friendship is to rob me of my eyes, if it is to darken the day, I
will have none of it.  It should be expansive and inconceivably
liberalizing in its effects.  True Friendship can afford true
knowledge.  It does not depend on darkness and ignorance.  A want
of discernment cannot be an ingredient in it.  If I can see my
Friend's virtues more distinctly than another's, his faults too
are made more conspicuous by contrast.  We have not so good a
right to hate any as our Friend.  Faults are not the less faults
because they are invariably balanced by corresponding virtues,
and for a fault there is no excuse, though it may appear greater
than it is in many ways.  I have never known one who could bear
criticism, who could not be flattered, who would not bribe his
judge, or was content that the truth should be loved always
better than himself.
If two travellers would go their way harmoniously together, the
one must take as true and just a view of things as the other,
else their path will not be strewn with roses.  Yet you can
travel profitably and pleasantly even with a blind man, if he
practises common courtesy, and when you converse about the
scenery will remember that he is blind but that you can see; and
you will not forget that his sense of hearing is probably
quickened by his want of sight.  Otherwise you will not long keep
company.  A blind man, and a man in whose eyes there was no
defect, were walking together, when they came to the edge of a
precipice.  "Take care!  my friend," said the latter, "here is a
steep precipice; go no farther this way."--"I know better," said
the other, and stepped off.
It is impossible to say all that we think, even to our truest
Friend.  We may bid him farewell forever sooner than complain,
for our complaint is too well grounded to be uttered.  There is
not so good an understanding between any two, but the exposure by
the one of a serious fault in the other will produce a
misunderstanding in proportion to its heinousness.  The
constitutional differences which always exist, and are obstacles
to a perfect Friendship, are forever a forbidden theme to the
lips of Friends.  They advise by their whole behavior.  Nothing
can reconcile them but love.  They are fatally late when they
undertake to explain and treat with one another like foes.  Who
will take an apology for a Friend?  They must apologize like dew
and frost, which are off again with the sun, and which all men
know in their hearts to be beneficent.  The necessity itself for
explanation,--what explanation will atone for that?
True love does not quarrel for slight reasons, such mistakes as
mutual acquaintances can explain away, but, alas, however slight
the apparent cause, only for adequate and fatal and everlasting
reasons, which can never be set aside.  Its quarrel, if there is
any, is ever recurring, notwithstanding the beams of affection
which invariably come to gild its tears; as the rainbow, however
beautiful and unerring a sign, does not promise fair weather
forever, but only for a season.  I have known two or three
persons pretty well, and yet I have never known advice to be of
use but in trivial and transient matters.  One may know what
another does not, but the utmost kindness cannot impart what is
requisite to make the advice useful.  We must accept or refuse
one another as we are.  I could tame a hyena more easily than my
Friend.  He is a material which no tool of mine will work.  A
naked savage will fell an oak with a firebrand, and wear a
hatchet out of a rock by friction, but I cannot hew the smallest
chip out of the character of my Friend, either to beautify or
deform it.
The lover learns at last that there is no person quite
transparent and trustworthy, but every one has a devil in him
that is capable of any crime in the long run.  Yet, as an
Oriental philosopher has said, "Although Friendship between good
men is interrupted, their principles remain unaltered.  The stalk
of the lotus may be broken, and the fibres remain connected."
Ignorance and bungling with love are better than wisdom and skill
without.  There may be courtesy, there may be even temper, and
wit, and talent, and sparkling conversation, there may be
good-will even,--and yet the humanest and divinest faculties pine
for exercise.  Our life without love is like coke and ashes.  Men
may be pure as alabaster and Parian marble, elegant as a Tuscan
villa, sublime as Niagara, and yet if there is no milk mingled
with the wine at their entertainments, better is the hospitality
of Goths and Vandals.
My Friend is not of some other race or family of men, but flesh
of my flesh, bone of my bone.  He is my real brother.  I see his
nature groping yonder so like mine.  We do not live far apart.
Have not the fates associated us in many ways?  It says, in the
Vishnu Purana: "Seven paces together is sufficient for the
friendship of the virtuous, but thou and I have dwelt together."
Is it of no significance that we have so long partaken of the
same loaf, drank at the same fountain, breathed the same air
summer and winter, felt the same heat and cold; that the same
fruits have been pleased to refresh us both, and we have never
had a thought of different fibre the one from the other!
      Nature doth have her dawn each day,
      But mine are far between;
      Content, I cry, for sooth to say,
      Mine brightest are I ween.
      For when my sun doth deign to rise,
      Though it be her noontide,
      Her fairest field in shadow lies,
      Nor can my light abide.
      Sometimes I bask me in her day,
      Conversing with my mate,
      But if we interchange one ray,
      Forthwith her heats abate.
      Through his discourse I climb and see,
      As from some eastern hill,
      A brighter morrow rise to me
      Than lieth in her skill.
      As 't were two summer days in one,
      Two Sundays come together,
      Our rays united make one sun,
      With fairest summer weather.
