
As surely as the sunset in my latest November shall translate me
to the ethereal world, and remind me of the ruddy morning of
youth; as surely as the last strain of music which falls on my
decaying ear shall make age to be forgotten, or, in short, the
manifold influences of nature survive during the term of our
natural life, so surely my Friend shall forever be my Friend, and
reflect a ray of God to me, and time shall foster and adorn and
consecrate our Friendship, no less than the ruins of temples.  As
I love nature, as I love singing birds, and gleaming stubble, and
flowing rivers, and morning and evening, and summer and winter, I
love thee, my Friend.
But all that can be said of Friendship, is like botany to
flowers.  How can the understanding take account of its
friendliness?
Even the death of Friends will inspire us as much as their lives.
They will leave consolation to the mourners, as the rich leave
money to defray the expenses of their funerals, and their
memories will be incrusted over with sublime and pleasing
thoughts, as monuments of other men are overgrown with moss; for
our Friends have no place in the graveyard.
This to our cis-Alpine and cis-Atlantic Friends.
Also this other word of entreaty and advice to the large and
respectable nation of Acquaintances, beyond the
mountains;--Greeting.
My most serene and irresponsible neighbors, let us see that we
have the whole advantage of each other; we will be useful, at
least, if not admirable, to one another.  I know that the
mountains which separate us are high, and covered with perpetual
snow, but despair not.  Improve the serene winter weather to
scale them.  If need be, soften the rocks with vinegar.  For here
lie the verdant plains of Italy ready to receive you.  Nor shall
I be slow on my side to penetrate to your Provence.  Strike then
boldly at head or heart or any vital part.  Depend upon it, the
timber is well seasoned and tough, and will bear rough usage; and
if it should crack, there is plenty more where it came from.  I
am no piece of crockery that cannot be jostled against my
neighbor without danger of being broken by the collision, and
must needs ring false and jarringly to the end of my days, when
once I am cracked; but rather one of the old-fashioned wooden
trenchers, which one while stands at the head of the table, and
at another is a milking-stool, and at another a seat for
children, and finally goes down to its grave not unadorned with
honorable scars, and does not die till it is worn out.  Nothing
can shock a brave man but dulness.  Think how many rebuffs every
man has experienced in his day; perhaps has fallen into a
horse-pond, eaten fresh-water clams, or worn one shirt for a week
without washing.  Indeed, you cannot receive a shock unless you
have an electric affinity for that which shocks you.  Use me,
then, for I am useful in my way, and stand as one of many
petitioners, from toadstool and henbane up to dahlia and violet,
supplicating to be put to my use, if by any means ye may find me
serviceable; whether for a medicated drink or bath, as balm and
lavender; or for fragrance, as verbena and geranium; or for
sight, as cactus; or for thoughts, as pansy.  These humbler, at
least, if not those higher uses.
Ah, my dear Strangers and Enemies, I would not forget you.  I can
well afford to welcome you.  Let me subscribe myself Yours ever
and truly,--your much obliged servant.  We have nothing to fear
from our foes; God keeps a standing army for that service; but we
have no ally against our Friends, those ruthless Vandals.
Once more to one and all,
     "Friends, Romans, Countrymen, and Lovers."
     Let such pure hate still underprop
     Our love, that we may be
     Each other's conscience.
     And have our sympathy
     Mainly from thence.
     We'll one another treat like gods,
     And all the faith we have
     In virtue and in truth, bestow
     On either, and suspicion leave
     To gods below.
     Two solitary stars,--
     Unmeasured systems far
     Between us roll,
     But by our conscious light we are
     Determined to one pole.
     What need confound the sphere,--
     Love can afford to wait,
     For it no hour's too late
     That witnesseth one duty's end,
     Or to another doth beginning lend.
     It will subserve no use,
     More than the tints of flowers,
     Only the independent guest
     Frequents its bowers,
     Inherits its bequest.
     No speech though kind has it,
     But kinder silence doles
     Unto its mates,
     By night consoles,
     By day congratulates.
     What saith the tongue to tongue?
     What heareth ear of ear?
     By the decrees of fate
     From year to year,
     Does it communicate.
     Pathless the gulf of feeling yawns,--
     No trivial bridge of words,
     Or arch of boldest span,
     Can leap the moat that girds
     The sincere man.
     No show of bolts and bars
     Can keep the foeman out,
     Or 'scape his secret mine
     Who entered with the doubt
     That drew the line.
     No warder at the gate
     Can let the friendly in,
     But, like the sun, o'er all
     He will the castle win,
     And shine along the wall.
     There's nothing in the world I know
     That can escape from love,
     For every depth it goes below,
     And every height above.
     It waits as waits the sky,
     Until the clouds go by,
     Yet shines serenely on
     With an eternal day,
     Alike when they are gone,
     And when they stay.
     Implacable is Love,--
     Foes may be bought or teased
     From their hostile intent,
     But he goes unappeased
     Who is on kindness bent.
