
Having rowed five or six miles above Amoskeag before sunset, and
reached a pleasant part of the river, one of us landed to look
for a farm-house, where we might replenish our stores, while the
other remained cruising about the stream, and exploring the
opposite shores to find a suitable harbor for the night.  In the
mean while the canal-boats began to come round a point in our
rear, poling their way along close to the shore, the breeze
having quite died away.  This time there was no offer of
assistance, but one of the boatmen only called out to say, as the
truest revenge for having been the losers in the race, that he
had seen a wood-duck, which we had scared up, sitting on a tall
white-pine, half a mile down stream; and he repeated the
assertion several times, and seemed really chagrined at the
apparent suspicion with which this information was received.  But
there sat the summer duck still, undisturbed by us.
By and by the other voyageur returned from his inland expedition,
bringing one of the natives with him, a little flaxen-headed boy,
with some tradition, or small edition, of Robinson Crusoe in his
head, who had been charmed by the account of our adventures, and
asked his father's leave to join us.  He examined, at first from
the top of the bank, our boat and furniture, with sparkling eyes,
and wished himself already his own man.  He was a lively and
interesting boy, and we should have been glad to ship him; but
Nathan was still his father's boy, and had not come to years of
discretion.
We had got a loaf of home-made bread, and musk and water melons
for dessert.  For this farmer, a clever and well-disposed man,
cultivated a large patch of melons for the Hooksett and Concord
markets.  He hospitably entertained us the next day, exhibiting
his hop-fields and kiln and melon-patch, warning us to step over
the tight rope which surrounded the latter at a foot from the
ground, while he pointed to a little bower at one corner, where
it connected with the lock of a gun ranging with the line, and
where, as he informed us, he sometimes sat in pleasant nights to
defend his premises against thieves.  We stepped high over the
line, and sympathized with our host's on the whole quite human,
if not humane, interest in the success of his experiment.  That
night especially thieves were to be expected, from rumors in the
atmosphere, and the priming was not wet.  He was a Methodist man,
who had his dwelling between the river and Uncannunuc Mountain;
who there belonged, and stayed at home there, and by the
encouragement of distant political organizations, and by his own
tenacity, held a property in his melons, and continued to plant.
We suggested melon-seeds of new varieties and fruit of foreign
flavor to be added to his stock.  We had come away up here among
the hills to learn the impartial and unbribable beneficence of
Nature.  Strawberries and melons grow as well in one man's garden
as another's, and the sun lodges as kindly under his
hillside,--when we had imagined that she inclined rather to some
few earnest and faithful souls whom we know.
We found a convenient harbor for our boat on the opposite or east
shore, still in Hooksett, at the mouth of a small brook which
emptied into the Merrimack, where it would be out of the way of
any passing boat in the night,--for they commonly hug the shore
if bound up stream, either to avoid the current, or touch the
bottom with their poles,--and where it would be accessible
without stepping on the clayey shore.  We set one of our largest
melons to cool in the still water among the alders at the mouth
of this creek, but when our tent was pitched and ready, and we
went to get it, it had floated out into the stream, and was
nowhere to be seen.  So taking the boat in the twilight, we went
in pursuit of this property, and at length, after long straining
of the eyes, its green disk was discovered far down the river,
gently floating seaward with many twigs and leaves from the
mountains that evening, and so perfectly balanced that it had not
keeled at all, and no water had run in at the tap which had been
taken out to hasten its cooling.
As we sat on the bank eating our supper, the clear light of the
western sky fell on the eastern trees, and was reflected in the
water, and we enjoyed so serene an evening as left nothing to
describe.  For the most part we think that there are few degrees
of sublimity, and that the highest is but little higher than that
which we now behold; but we are always deceived.  Sublimer
visions appear, and the former pale and fade away.  We are
grateful when we are reminded by interior evidence of the
permanence of universal laws; for our faith is but faintly
remembered, indeed, is not a remembered assurance, but a use and
enjoyment of knowledge.  It is when we do not have to believe,
but come into actual contact with Truth, and are related to her
in the most direct and intimate way.  Waves of serener life pass
over us from time to time, like flakes of sunlight over the
fields in cloudy weather.  In some happier moment, when more sap
flows in the withered stalk of our life, Syria and India stretch
away from our present as they do in history.  All the events
which make the annals of the nations are but the shadows of our
private experiences.  Suddenly and silently the eras which we
call history awake and glimmer in us, and _there_ is room for
Alexander and Hannibal to march and conquer.  In short, the
history which we read is only a fainter memory of events which
have happened in our own experience.  Tradition is a more
interrupted and feebler memory.
This world is but canvas to our imaginations.  I see men with
infinite pains endeavoring to realize to their bodies, what I,
with at least equal pains, would realize to my imagination,--its
capacities; for certainly there is a life of the mind above the
wants of the body, and independent of it.  Often the body is
warmed, but the imagination is torpid; the body is fat, but the
imagination is lean and shrunk.  But what avails all other wealth
if this is wanting?  "Imagination is the air of mind," in which
it lives and breathes.  All things are as I am.  Where is the
House of Change?  The past is only so heroic as we see it.
It is the canvas on which our idea of heroism is painted, and
so, in one sense, the dim prospectus of our future field.  Our
circumstances answer to our expectations and the demand of our
natures.  I have noticed that if a man thinks that he needs a
thousand dollars, and cannot be convinced that he does not, he
will commonly be found to have them; if he lives and thinks a
thousand dollars will be forthcoming, though it be to buy
shoe-strings with.  A thousand mills will be just as slow to
come to one who finds it equally hard to convince himself that
he needs _them_.
     Men are by birth equal in this, that given Themselves and
     their condition, they are even.
I am astonished at the singular pertinacity and endurance of our
lives.  The miracle is, that what is _is_, when it is so
difficult, if not impossible, for anything else to be; that we
walk on in our particular paths so far, before we fall on death
and fate, merely because we must walk in some path; that every
man can get a living, and so few can do anything more.  So much
only can I accomplish ere health and strength are gone, and yet
this suffices.  The bird now sits just out of gunshot.  I am
never rich in money, and I am never meanly poor.  If debts are
incurred, why, debts are in the course of events cancelled, as it
were by the same law by which they were incurred.  I heard that
an engagement was entered into between a certain youth and a
maiden, and then I heard that it was broken off, but I did not
know the reason in either case.  We are hedged about, we think,
by accident and circumstance, now we creep as in a dream, and now
again we run, as if there were a fate in it, and all things
thwarted or assisted.  I cannot change my clothes but when I do,
and yet I do change them, and soil the new ones.  It is wonderful
that this gets done, when some admirable deeds which I could
mention do not get done.  Our particular lives seem of such
fortune and confident strength and durability as piers of solid
rock thrown forward into the tide of circumstance.  When every
other path would fail, with singular and unerring confidence we
advance on our particular course.  What risks we run! famine and
fire and pestilence, and the thousand forms of a cruel fate,--and
yet every man lives till he--dies.  How did he manage that?  Is
there no immediate danger?  We wonder superfluously when we hear
of a somnambulist walking a plank securely,--we have walked a
plank all our lives up to this particular string-piece where we
are.  My life will wait for nobody, but is being matured still
without delay, while I go about the streets, and chaffer with
this man and that to secure it a living.  It is as indifferent
and easy meanwhile as a poor man's dog, and making acquaintance
with its kind.  It will cut its own channel like a mountain
stream, and by the longest ridge is not kept from the sea at
last.  I have found all things thus far, persons and inanimate
matter, elements and seasons, strangely adapted to my resources.
No matter what imprudent haste in my career; I am permitted to be
rash.  Gulfs are bridged in a twinkling, as if some unseen
baggage-train carried pontoons for my convenience, and while from
the heights I scan the tempting but unexplored Pacific Ocean of
Futurity, the ship is being carried over the mountains piecemeal
on the backs of mules and lamas, whose keel shall plough its
waves, and bear me to the Indies.  Day would not dawn if it were
not for
     THE INWARD MORNING
     Packed in my mind lie all the clothes
     Which outward nature wears,
     And in its fashion's hourly change
     It all things else repairs.
     In vain I look for change abroad,
     And can no difference find,
     Till some new ray of peace uncalled
     Illumes my inmost mind.
     What is it gilds the trees and clouds,
     And paints the heavens so gay,
     But yonder fast-abiding light
     With its unchanging ray?
     Lo, when the sun streams through the wood,
     Upon a winter's morn,
     Where'er his silent beams intrude,
     The murky night is gone.
     How could the patient pine have known
       The morning breeze would come,
     Or humble flowers anticipate
       The insect's noonday hum,--
     Till the new light with morning cheer
       From far streamed through the aisles,
     And nimbly told the forest trees
       For many stretching miles?
     I've heard within my inmost soul
       Such cheerful morning news,
     In the horizon of my mind
       Have seen such orient hues,
     As in the twilight of the dawn,
       When the first birds awake,
     Are heard within some silent wood,
       Where they the small twigs break,
     Or in the eastern skies are seen,
       Before the sun appears,
     The harbingers of summer heats
        Which from afar he bears.
Whole weeks and months of my summer life slide away in thin
volumes like mist and smoke, till at length, some warm morning,
perchance, I see a sheet of mist blown down the brook to the
swamp, and I float as high above the fields with it.  I can recall
to mind the stillest summer hours, in which the grasshopper sings
over the mulleins, and there is a valor in that time the bare
memory of which is armor that can laugh at any blow of fortune.
For our lifetime the strains of a harp are heard to swell and die
alternately, and death is but "the pause when the blast is
recollecting itself."
We lay awake a long while, listening to the murmurs of the brook,
in the angle formed by whose bank with the river our tent was
pitched, and there was a sort of human interest in its story,
which ceases not in freshet or in drought the livelong summer,
and the profounder lapse of the river was quite drowned by its
din.  But the rill, whose
     "Silver sands and pebbles sing
     Eternal ditties with the spring,"
is silenced by the first frosts of winter, while mightier
streams, on whose bottom the sun never shines, clogged with
sunken rocks and the ruins of forests, from whose surface comes
up no murmur, are strangers to the icy fetters which bind fast a
thousand contributary rills.
I dreamed this night of an event which had occurred long before.
It was a difference with a Friend, which had not ceased to give
me pain, though I had no cause to blame myself.  But in my dream
ideal justice was at length done me for his suspicions, and I
received that compensation which I had never obtained in my
waking hours.  I was unspeakably soothed and rejoiced, even after
I awoke, because in dreams we never deceive ourselves, nor are
deceived, and this seemed to have the authority of a final
judgment.
We bless and curse ourselves.  Some dreams are divine, as well as
some waking thoughts.  Donne sings of one
