
     Bid Homer wait till I the issue learn,
     If red or black the gods will favor most,
     Or yonder Ajax will the phalanx turn,
     Struggling to heave some rock against the host.
     Tell Shakespeare to attend some leisure hour,
     For now I've business with this drop of dew,
     And see you not, the clouds prepare a shower,--
     I'll meet him shortly when the sky is blue.
     This bed of herd's-grass and wild oats was spread
     Last year with nicer skill than monarchs use,
     A clover tuft is pillow for my head,
     And violets quite overtop my shoes.
     And now the cordial clouds have shut all in
     And gently swells the wind to say all's well
     The scattered drops are falling fast and thin,
     Some in the pool, some in the flower-bell.
     I am well drenched upon my bed of oats;
     But see that globe come rolling down its stem
     Now like a lonely planet there it floats,
     And now it sinks into my garment's hem.
     Drip drip the trees for all the country round,
     And richness rare distils from every bough,
     The wind alone it is makes every sound,
     Shaking down crystals on the leaves below.
     For shame the sun will never show himself,
     Who could not with his beams e'er melt me so,
     My dripping locks,--they would become an elf,
     Who in a beaded coat does gayly go.
The Pinnacle is a small wooded hill which rises very abruptly to
the height of about two hundred feet, near the shore at Hooksett
Falls.  As Uncannunuc Mountain is perhaps the best point from
which to view the valley of the Merrimack, so this hill affords
the best view of the river itself.  I have sat upon its summit, a
precipitous rock only a few rods long, in fairer weather, when
the sun was setting and filling the river valley with a flood of
light.  You can see up and down the Merrimack several miles each
way.  The broad and straight river, full of light and life, with
its sparkling and foaming falls, the islet which divides the
stream, the village of Hooksett on the shore almost directly
under your feet, so near that you can converse with its
inhabitants or throw a stone into its yards, the woodland lake at
its western base, and the mountains in the north and northeast,
make a scene of rare beauty and completeness, which the traveller
should take pains to behold.
We were hospitably entertained in Concord, New Hampshire, which
we persisted in calling _New_ Concord, as we had been wont, to
distinguish it from our native town, from which we had been told
that it was named and in part originally settled.  This would
have been the proper place to conclude our voyage, uniting
Concord with Concord by these meandering rivers, but our boat was
moored some miles below its port.
The richness of the intervals at Penacook, now Concord, New
Hampshire, had been observed by explorers, and, according to the
historian of Haverhill, in the
  "year 1726, considerable progress was made in the settlement,
  and a road was cut through the wilderness from Haverhill to
  Penacook.  In the fall of 1727, the first family, that of
  Captain Ebenezer Eastman, moved into the place.  His team was
  driven by Jacob Shute, who was by birth a Frenchman, and he is
  said to have been the first person who drove a team through the
  wilderness.  Soon after, says tradition, one Ayer, a lad of 18,
  drove a team consisting of ten yoke of oxen to Penacook, swam
  the river, and ploughed a portion of the interval.  He is
  supposed to have been the first person who ploughed land in
  that place.  After he had completed his work, he started on his
  return at sunrise, drowned a yoke of oxen while recrossing the
  river, and arrived at Haverhill about midnight.  The crank of
  the first saw-mill was manufactured in Haverhill, and carried
  to Penacook on a horse."
But we found that the frontiers were not this way any longer.
This generation has come into the world fatally late for some
enterprises.  Go where we will on the _surface_ of things, men
have been there before us.  We cannot now have the pleasure of
erecting the _last_ house; that was long ago set up in the
suburbs of Astoria City, and our boundaries have literally been
run to the South Sea, according to the old patents.  But the
lives of men, though more extended laterally in their range, are
still as shallow as ever.  Undoubtedly, as a Western orator said,
"Men generally live over about the same surface; some live long
and narrow, and others live broad and short"; but it is all
superficial living.  A worm is as good a traveller as a
grasshopper or a cricket, and a much wiser settler.  With all
their activity these do not hop away from drought nor forward to
summer.  We do not avoid evil by fleeing before it, but by rising
above or diving below its plane; as the worm escapes drought and
frost by boring a few inches deeper.  The frontiers are not east
or west, north or south, but wherever a man _fronts_ a fact,
though that fact be his neighbor, there is an unsettled
wilderness between him and Canada, between him and the setting
sun, or, farther still, between him and _it_.  Let him build
himself a log-house with the bark on where he is, _fronting_
^it^, and wage there an Old French war for seven or seventy
years, with Indians and Rangers, or whatever else may come
between him and the reality, and save his scalp if he can.
We now no longer sailed or floated on the river, but trod the
unyielding land like pilgrims.  Sadi tells who may travel; among
others, "A common mechanic, who can earn a subsistence by the
industry of his hand, and shall not have to stake his reputation
for every morsel of bread, as philosophers have said." He may
travel who can subsist on the wild fruits and game of the most
cultivated country.  A man may travel fast enough and earn his
living on the road.  I have at times been applied to to do work
when on a journey; to do tinkering and repair clocks, when I had
a knapsack on my back.  A man once applied to me to go into a
factory, stating conditions and wages, observing that I succeeded
in shutting the window of a railroad car in which we were
travelling, when the other passengers had failed.  "Hast thou not
heard of a Sufi, who was hammering some nails into the sole of
his sandal; an officer of cavalry took him by the sleeve, saying,
Come along and shoe my horse."  Farmers have asked me to assist
them in haying, when I was passing their fields.  A man once
applied to me to mend his umbrella, taking me for an
umbrella-mender, because, being on a journey, I carried an
umbrella in my hand while the sun shone.  Another wished to buy a
tin cup of me, observing that I had one strapped to my belt, and
a sauce-pan on my back.  The cheapest way to travel, and the way
to travel the farthest in the shortest distance, is to go afoot,
carrying a dipper, a spoon, and a fish-line, some Indian meal,
some salt, and some sugar.  When you come to a brook or pond, you
can catch fish and cook them; or you can boil a hasty-pudding; or
you can buy a loaf of bread at a farmer's house for fourpence,
moisten it in the next brook that crosses the road, and dip into
it your sugar,--this alone will last you a whole day;--or, if you
are accustomed to heartier living, you can buy a quart of milk
for two cents, crumb your bread or cold pudding into it, and eat
it with your own spoon out of your own dish.  Any one of these
things I mean, not all together.  I have travelled thus some
hundreds of miles without taking any meal in a house, sleeping on
the ground when convenient, and found it cheaper, and in many
respects more profitable, than staying at home.  So that some
have inquired why it would not be best to travel always.  But I
never thought of travelling simply as a means of getting a
livelihood.  A simple woman down in Tyngsborough, at whose house
I once stopped to get a draught of water, when I said,
recognizing the bucket, that I had stopped there nine years
before for the same purpose, asked if I was not a traveller,
supposing that I had been travelling ever since, and had now come
round again; that travelling was one of the professions, more or
less productive, which her husband did not follow.  But continued
travelling is far from productive.  It begins with wearing away
the soles of the shoes, and making the feet sore, and erelong it
will wear a man clean up, after making his heart sore into the
bargain.  I have observed that the after-life of those who have
travelled much is very pathetic.  True and sincere travelling is
no pastime, but it is as serious as the grave, or any part of the
human journey, and it requires a long probation to be broken into
it.  I do not speak of those that travel sitting, the sedentary
travellers whose legs hang dangling the while, mere idle symbols
of the fact, any more than when we speak of sitting hens we mean
those that sit standing, but I mean those to whom travelling is
life for the legs, and death too, at last.  The traveller must be
born again on the road, and earn a passport from the elements,
the principal powers that be for him.  He shall experience at
last that old threat of his mother fulfilled, that he shall be
skinned alive.  His sores shall gradually deepen themselves that
they may heal inwardly, while he gives no rest to the sole of his
foot, and at night weariness must be his pillow, that so he may
acquire experience against his rainy days.--So was it with us.
Sometimes we lodged at an inn in the woods, where trout-fishers
from distant cities had arrived before us, and where, to our
astonishment, the settlers dropped in at nightfall to have a chat
and hear the news, though there was but one road, and no other
house was visible,--as if they had come out of the earth.  There
we sometimes read old newspapers, who never before read new ones,
and in the rustle of their leaves heard the dashing of the surf
along the Atlantic shore, instead of the sough of the wind among
the pines.  But then walking had given us an appetite even for
the least palatable and nutritious food.
Some hard and dry book in a dead language, which you have found
it impossible to read at home, but for which you have still a
lingering regard, is the best to carry with you on a journey.  At
a country inn, in the barren society of ostlers and travellers, I
could undertake the writers of the silver or the brazen age with
confidence.  Almost the last regular service which I performed in
the cause of literature was to read the works of
              AULUS PERSIUS FLACCUS.
If you have imagined what a divine work is spread out for the
poet, and approach this author too, in the hope of finding the
field at length fairly entered on, you will hardly dissent from
the words of the prologue,
     "Ipse semipaganus
     Ad sacra Vatum carmen affero nostrum."
     I half pagan
     Bring my verses to the shrine of the poets.
Here is none of the interior dignity of Virgil, nor the elegance
and vivacity of Horace, nor will any sibyl be needed to remind
you, that from those older Greek poets there is a sad descent to
Persius.  You can scarcely distinguish one harmonious sound amid
this unmusical bickering with the follies of men.
One sees that music has its place in thought, but hardly as yet
in language.  When the Muse arrives, we wait for her to remould
language, and impart to it her own rhythm.  Hitherto the verse
groans and labors with its load, and goes not forward blithely,
singing by the way.  The best ode may be parodied, indeed is
itself a parody, and has a poor and trivial sound, like a man
stepping on the rounds of a ladder.  Homer and Shakespeare and
Milton and Marvell and Wordsworth are but the rustling of leaves
and crackling of twigs in the forest, and there is not yet the
sound of any bird.  The Muse has never lifted up her voice to
sing.  Most of all, satire will not be sung.  A Juvenal or
Persius do not marry music to their verse, but are measured
fault-finders at best; stand but just outside the faults they
condemn, and so are concerned rather about the monster which they
have escaped, than the fair prospect before them.  Let them live
on an age, and they will have travelled out of his shadow and
reach, and found other objects to ponder.
As long as there is satire, the poet is, as it were, _particeps
criminis_.  One sees not but he had best let bad take care of
itself, and have to do only with what is beyond suspicion.  If
you light on the least vestige of truth, and it is the weight of
the whole body still which stamps the faintest trace, an eternity
will not suffice to extol it, while no evil is so huge, but you
grudge to bestow on it a moment of hate.  Truth never turns to
rebuke falsehood; her own straightforwardness is the severest
correction.  Horace would not have written satire so well if he
had not been inspired by it, as by a passion, and fondly
cherished his vein.  In his odes, the love always exceeds the
hate, so that the severest satire still sings itself, and the
poet is satisfied, though the folly be not corrected.
A sort of necessary order in the development of Genius is, first,
Complaint; second, Plaint; third, Love.  Complaint, which is the
condition of Persius, lies not in the province of poetry.  Erelong
the enjoyment of a superior good would have changed his disgust
into regret.  We can never have much sympathy with the complainer;
for after searching nature through, we conclude that he must be
both plaintiff and defendant too, and so had best come to a
settlement without a hearing.  He who receives an injury is to
some extent an accomplice of the wrong-doer.
Perhaps it would be truer to say, that the highest strain of the
muse is essentially plaintive.  The saint's are still _tears_ of
joy.  Who has ever heard the _Innocent_ sing?
