
We can never safely exceed the actual facts in our narratives.
Of pure invention, such as some suppose, there is no instance.
To write a true work of fiction even, is only to take leisure and
liberty to describe some things more exactly as they are.  A true
account of the actual is the rarest poetry, for common sense
always takes a hasty and superficial view.  Though I am not much
acquainted with the works of Goethe, I should say that it was one
of his chief excellences as a writer, that he was satisfied with
giving an exact description of things as they appeared to him,
and their effect upon him.  Most travellers have not self-respect
enough to do this simply, and make objects and events stand
around them as the centre, but still imagine more favorable
positions and relations than the actual ones, and so we get no
valuable report from them at all.  In his Italian Travels Goethe
jogs along at a snail's pace, but always mindful that the earth
is beneath and the heavens are above him.  His Italy is not
merely the fatherland of lazzaroni and virtuosi, and scene of
splendid ruins, but a solid turf-clad soil, daily shined on by
the sun, and nightly by the moon.  Even the few showers are
faithfully recorded.  He speaks as an unconcerned spectator,
whose object is faithfully to describe what he sees, and that,
for the most part, in the order in which he sees it.  Even his
reflections do not interfere with his descriptions.  In one place
he speaks of himself as giving so glowing and truthful a
description of an old tower to the peasants who had gathered
around him, that they who had been born and brought up in the
neighborhood must needs look over their shoulders, "that," to use
his own words, "they might behold with their eyes, what I had
praised to their ears,"--"and I added nothing, not even the ivy
which for centuries had decorated the walls." It would thus be
possible for inferior minds to produce invaluable books, if this
very moderation were not the evidence of superiority; for the
wise are not so much wiser than others as respecters of their own
wisdom.  Some, poor in spirit, record plaintively only what has
happened to them; but others how they have happened to the
universe, and the judgment which they have awarded to
circumstances.  Above all, he possessed a hearty good-will to all
men, and never wrote a cross or even careless word.  On one
occasion the post-boy snivelling, "Signor perdonate, questa e` la
mia patria," he confesses that "to me poor northerner came
something tear-like into the eyes."
Goethe's whole education and life were those of the artist.  He
lacks the unconsciousness of the poet.  In his autobiography he
describes accurately the life of the author of Wilhelm Meister.
For as there is in that book, mingled with a rare and serene
wisdom, a certain pettiness or exaggeration of trifles, wisdom
applied to produce a constrained and partial and merely well-bred
man,--a magnifying of the theatre till life itself is turned into
a stage, for which it is our duty to study our parts well, and
conduct with propriety and precision,--so in the autobiography,
the fault of his education is, so to speak, its merely artistic
completeness.  Nature is hindered, though she prevails at last in
making an unusually catholic impression on the boy.  It is the
life of a city boy, whose toys are pictures and works of art,
whose wonders are the theatre and kingly processions and
crownings.  As the youth studied minutely the order and the
degrees in the imperial procession, and suffered none of its
effect to be lost on him, so the man aimed to secure a rank in
society which would satisfy his notion of fitness and
respectability.  He was defrauded of much which the savage boy
enjoys.  Indeed, he himself has occasion to say in this very
autobiography, when at last he escapes into the woods without the
gates: "Thus much is certain, that only the undefinable,
wide-expanding feelings of youth and of uncultivated nations are
adapted to the sublime, which, whenever it may be excited in us
through external objects, since it is either formless, or else
moulded into forms which are incomprehensible, must surround us
with a grandeur which we find above our reach." He further says
of himself: "I had lived among painters from my childhood, and
had accustomed myself to look at objects, as they did, with
reference to art."  And this was his practice to the last.  He
was even too _well-bred_ to be thoroughly bred.  He says that he
had had no intercourse with the lowest class of his towns-boys.
The child should have the advantage of ignorance as well as of
knowledge, and is fortunate if he gets his share of neglect and
exposure.
     "The laws of Nature break the rules of Art."
The Man of Genius may at the same time be, indeed is commonly, an
Artist, but the two are not to be confounded.  The Man of Genius,
referred to mankind, is an originator, an inspired or demonic
man, who produces a perfect work in obedience to laws yet
unexplored.  The Artist is he who detects and applies the law
from observation of the works of Genius, whether of man or
nature.  The Artisan is he who merely applies the rules which
others have detected.  There has been no man of pure Genius; as
there has been none wholly destitute of Genius.
Poetry is the mysticism of mankind.
The expressions of the poet cannot be analyzed; his sentence is
one word, whose syllables are words.  There are indeed no _words_
quite worthy to be set to his music.  But what matter if we do
not hear the words always, if we hear the music?
Much verse fails of being poetry because it was not written
exactly at the right crisis, though it may have been
inconceivably near to it.  It is only by a miracle that poetry is
written at all.  It is not recoverable thought, but a hue caught
from a vaster receding thought.
A poem is one undivided unimpeded expression fallen ripe into
literature, and it is undividedly and unimpededly received by
those for whom it was matured.
If you can speak what you will never hear, if you can write what
you will never read, you have done rare things.
     The work we choose should be our own,
     God lets alone.
The unconsciousness of man is the consciousness of God.
Deep are the foundations of sincerity.  Even stone walls have
their foundation below the frost.
What is produced by a free stroke charms us, like the forms of
lichens and leaves.  There is a certain perfection in accident
which we never consciously attain.  Draw a blunt quill filled
with ink over a sheet of paper, and fold the paper before the ink
is dry, transversely to this line, and a delicately shaded and
regular figure will be produced, in some respects more pleasing
than an elaborate drawing.
The talent of composition is very dangerous,--the striking out
the heart of life at a blow, as the Indian takes off a scalp.  I
feel as if my life had grown more outward when I can express it.
On his journey from Brenner to Verona, Goethe writes:
"The Tees flows now more gently, and makes in many places broad
sands.  On the land, near to the water, upon the hillsides,
everything is so closely planted one to another, that you think
they must choke one another,--vineyards, maize, mulberry-trees,
apples, pears, quinces, and nuts.  The dwarf elder throws itself
vigorously over the walls.  Ivy grows with strong stems up the
rocks, and spreads itself wide over them, the lizard glides
through the intervals, and everything that wanders to and fro
reminds one of the loveliest pictures of art.  The women's tufts
of hair bound up, the men's bare breasts and light jackets, the
excellent oxen which they drive home from market, the little
asses with their loads,--everything forms a living, animated
Heinrich Roos.  And now that it is evening, in the mild air a few
clouds rest upon the mountains, in the heavens more stand still
than move, and immediately after sunset the chirping of crickets
begins to grow more loud; then one feels for once at home in the
world, and not as concealed or in exile.  I am contented as
though I had been born and brought up here, and were now
returning from a Greenland or whaling voyage.  Even the dust of
my Fatherland, which is often whirled about the wagon, and which
for so long a time I had not seen, is greeted.  The
clock-and-bell jingling of the crickets is altogether lovely,
penetrating, and agreeable.  It sounds bravely when roguish boys
whistle in emulation of a field of such songstresses.  One
fancies that they really enhance one another.  Also the evening
is perfectly mild as the day."
"If one who dwelt in the south, and came hither from the south,
should hear of my rapture hereupon, he would deem me very
childish.  Alas!  what I here express I have long known while I
suffered under an unpropitious heaven, and now may I joyful feel
this joy as an exception, which we should enjoy everforth as an
eternal necessity of our nature."
Thus we "sayled by thought and pleasaunce," as Chaucer says, and
all things seemed with us to flow; the shore itself, and the
distant cliffs, were dissolved by the undiluted air.  The hardest
material seemed to obey the same law with the most fluid, and so
indeed in the long run it does.  Trees were but rivers of sap and
woody fibre, flowing from the atmosphere, and emptying into the
earth by their trunks, as their roots flowed upward to the
surface.  And in the heavens there were rivers of stars, and
milky-ways, already beginning to gleam and ripple over our heads.
There were rivers of rock on the surface of the earth, and rivers
of ore in its bowels, and our thoughts flowed and circulated, and
this portion of time was but the current hour.  Let us wander
where we will, the universe is built round about us, and we are
central still.  If we look into the heavens they are concave, and
if we were to look into a gulf as bottomless, it would be concave
also.  The sky is curved downward to the earth in the horizon,
because we stand on the plain.  I draw down its skirts.  The
stars so low there seem loath to depart, but by a circuitous path
to be remembering me, and returning on their steps.
We had already passed by broad daylight the scene of our
encampment at Coos Falls, and at length we pitched our camp on
the west bank, in the northern part of Merrimack, nearly opposite
to the large island on which we had spent the noon in our way up
the river.
There we went to bed that summer evening, on a sloping shelf in
the bank, a couple of rods from our boat, which was drawn up on
the sand, and just behind a thin fringe of oaks which bordered
the river; without having disturbed any inhabitants but the
spiders in the grass, which came out by the light of our lamp,
and crawled over our buffaloes.  When we looked out from under
the tent, the trees were seen dimly through the mist, and a cool
dew hung upon the grass, which seemed to rejoice in the night,
and with the damp air we inhaled a solid fragrance.  Having eaten
our supper of hot cocoa and bread and watermelon, we soon grew
weary of conversing, and writing in our journals, and, putting
out the lantern which hung from the tent-pole, fell asleep.
Unfortunately, many things have been omitted which should have
been recorded in our journal; for though we made it a rule to set
down all our experiences therein, yet such a resolution is very
hard to keep, for the important experience rarely allows us to
remember such obligations, and so indifferent things get
recorded, while that is frequently neglected.  It is not easy to
write in a journal what interests us at any time, because to
write it is not what interests us.
Whenever we awoke in the night, still eking out our dreams with
half-awakened thoughts, it was not till after an interval, when
the wind breathed harder than usual, flapping the curtains of the
tent, and causing its cords to vibrate, that we remembered that
we lay on the bank of the Merrimack, and not in our chamber at
home.  With our heads so low in the grass, we heard the river
whirling and sucking, and lapsing downward, kissing the shore as
it went, sometimes rippling louder than usual, and again its
mighty current making only a slight limpid, trickling sound, as
if our water-pail had sprung a leak, and the water were flowing
into the grass by our side.  The wind, rustling the oaks and
hazels, impressed us like a wakeful and inconsiderate person up
at midnight, moving about, and putting things to rights,
occasionally stirring up whole drawers full of leaves at a puff.
There seemed to be a great haste and preparation throughout
Nature, as for a distinguished visitor; all her aisles had to be
swept in the night, by a thousand hand-maidens, and a thousand
pots to be boiled for the next day's feasting;--such a whispering
bustle, as if ten thousand fairies made their fingers fly,
silently sewing at the new carpet with which the earth was to be
clothed, and the new drapery which was to adorn the trees.  And
then the wind would lull and die away, and we like it fell asleep
again.
