
The true poem is not that which the public read.  There is always
a poem not printed on paper, coincident with the production of
this, stereotyped in the poet's life.  It is _what he has become
through his work_.  Not how is the idea expressed in stone, or on
canvas or paper, is the question, but how far it has obtained
form and expression in the life of the artist.  His true work
will not stand in any prince's gallery.
   My life has been the poem I would have writ,
   But I could not both live and utter it.
            THE POET'S DELAY.
     In vain I see the morning rise,
       In vain observe the western blaze,
     Who idly look to other skies,
       Expecting life by other ways.
     Amidst such boundless wealth without,
       I only still am poor within,
     The birds have sung their summer out,
       But still my spring does not begin.
     Shall I then wait the autumn wind,
       Compelled to seek a milder day,
     And leave no curious nest behind,
       No woods still echoing to my lay?
This raw and gusty day, and the creaking of the oaks and pines on
shore, reminded us of more northern climes than Greece, and more
wintry seas than the Aegean.
The genuine remains of Ossian, or those ancient poems which bear
his name, though of less fame and extent, are, in many respects,
of the same stamp with the Iliad itself.  He asserts the dignity
of the bard no less than Homer, and in his era we hear of no
other priest than he.  It will not avail to call him a heathen,
because he personifies the sun and addresses it; and what if his
heroes did "worship the ghosts of their fathers," their thin,
airy, and unsubstantial forms? we worship but the ghosts of our
fathers in more substantial forms.  We cannot but respect the
vigorous faith of those heathen, who sternly believed somewhat,
and are inclined to say to the critics, who are offended by their
superstitious rites,--Don't interrupt these men's prayers.  As if
we knew more about human life and a God, than the heathen and
ancients.  Does English theology contain the recent discoveries!
Ossian reminds us of the most refined and rudest eras, of Homer,
Pindar, Isaiah, and the American Indian.  In his poetry, as in
Homer's, only the simplest and most enduring features of humanity
are seen, such essential parts of a man as Stonehenge exhibits of
a temple; we see the circles of stone, and the upright shaft
alone.  The phenomena of life acquire almost an unreal and
gigantic size seen through his mists.  Like all older and grander
poetry, it is distinguished by the few elements in the lives of
its heroes.  They stand on the heath, between the stars and the
earth, shrunk to the bones and sinews.  The earth is a boundless
plain for their deeds.  They lead such a simple, dry, and
everlasting life, as hardly needs depart with the flesh, but is
transmitted entire from age to age.  There are but few objects to
distract their sight, and their life is as unencumbered as the
course of the stars they gaze at.
     "The wrathful kings, on cairns apart,
     Look forward from behind their shields,
     And mark the wandering stars,
     That brilliant westward move."
It does not cost much for these heroes to live; they do not want
much furniture.  They are such forms of men only as can be seen
afar through the mist, and have no costume nor dialect, but for
language there is the tongue itself, and for costume there are
always the skins of beasts and the bark of trees to be had.  They
live out their years by the vigor of their constitutions.  They
survive storms and the spears of their foes, and perform a few
heroic deeds, and then
     "Mounds will answer questions of them,
     For many future years."
Blind and infirm, they spend the remnant of their days listening
to the lays of the bards, and feeling the weapons which laid
their enemies low, and when at length they die, by a convulsion
of nature, the bard allows us a short and misty glance into
futurity, yet as clear, perchance, as their lives had been.  When
Mac-Roine was slain,
     "His soul departed to his warlike sires,
     To follow misty forms of boars,
     In tempestuous islands bleak."
The hero's cairn is erected, and the bard sings a brief
significant strain, which will suffice for epitaph and biography.
     "The weak will find his bow in the dwelling,
     The feeble will attempt to bend it."
Compared with this simple, fibrous life, our civilized history
appears the chronicle of debility, of fashion, and the arts of
luxury.  But the civilized man misses no real refinement in the
poetry of the rudest era.  It reminds him that civilization does
but dress men.  It makes shoes, but it does not toughen the soles
of the feet.  It makes cloth of finer texture, but it does not
touch the skin.  Inside the civilized man stand the savage still
in the place of honor.  We are those blue-eyed, yellow-haired
Saxons, those slender, dark-haired Normans.
The profession of the bard attracted more respect in those days
from the importance attached to fame.  It was his province to
record the deeds of heroes.  When Ossian hears the traditions of
inferior bards, he exclaims,--
     "I straightway seize the unfutile tales,
     And send them down in faithful verse."
His philosophy of life is expressed in the opening of the third
Duan of Ca-Lodin.
     "Whence have sprung the things that are?
     And whither roll the passing years?
     Where does Time conceal its two heads,
     In dense impenetrable gloom,
     Its surface marked with heroes' deeds alone?
     I view the generations gone;
     The past appears but dim;
     As objects by the moon's faint beams,
     Reflected from a distant lake.
     I see, indeed, the thunderbolts of war,
     But there the unmighty joyless dwell,
     All those who send not down their deeds
     To far, succeeding times."
The ignoble warriors die and are forgotten;
     "Strangers come to build a tower,
     And throw their ashes overhand;
     Some rusted swords appear in dust;
     One, bending forward, says,
     `The arms belonged to heroes gone;
     We never heard their praise in song.'"
The grandeur of the similes is another feature which characterizes
great poetry.  Ossian seems to speak a gigantic and universal
language.  The images and pictures occupy even much space in the
landscape, as if they could be seen only from the sides of
mountains, and plains with a wide horizon, or across arms of the
sea.  The machinery is so massive that it cannot be less than
natural.  Oivana says to the spirit of her father, "Gray-haired
Torkil of Torne," seen in the skies,
