
These continents and hemispheres are soon run over, but an always
unexplored and infinite region makes off on every side from the
mind, further than to sunset, and we can make no highway or
beaten track into it, but the grass immediately springs up in the
path, for we travel there chiefly with our wings.
Sometimes we see objects as through a thin haze, in their eternal
relations, and they stand like Palenque and the Pyramids, and we
wonder who set them up, and for what purpose.  If we see the
reality in things, of what moment is the superficial and apparent
longer?  What are the earth and all its interests beside the deep
surmise which pierces and scatters them?  While I sit here
listening to the waves which ripple and break on this shore, I am
absolved from all obligation to the past, and the council of
nations may reconsider its votes.  The grating of a pebble annuls
them.  Still occasionally in my dreams I remember that rippling
water.
     Oft, as I turn me on my pillow o'er,
     I hear the lapse of waves upon the shore,
     Distinct as if it were at broad noonday,
     And I were drifting down from Nashua.
With a bending sail we glided rapidly by Tyngsborough and
Chelmsford, each holding in one hand half of a tart country
apple-pie which we had purchased to celebrate our return, and in
the other a fragment of the newspaper in which it was wrapped,
devouring these with divided relish, and learning the news which
had transpired since we sailed.  The river here opened into a
broad and straight reach of great length, which we bounded
merrily over before a smacking breeze, with a devil-may-care look
in our faces, and our boat a white bone in its mouth, and a speed
which greatly astonished some scow boatmen whom we met.  The wind
in the horizon rolled like a flood over valley and plain, and
every tree bent to the blast, and the mountains like school-boys
turned their cheeks to it.  They were great and current motions,
the flowing sail, the running stream, the waving tree, the roving
wind.  The north-wind stepped readily into the harness which we
had provided, and pulled us along with good will.  Sometimes we
sailed as gently and steadily as the clouds overhead, watching
the receding shores and the motions of our sail; the play of its
pulse so like our own lives, so thin and yet so full of life, so
noiseless when it labored hardest, so noisy and impatient when
least effective; now bending to some generous impulse of the
breeze, and then fluttering and flapping with a kind of human
suspense.  It was the scale on which the varying temperature of
distant atmospheres was graduated, and it was some attraction for
us that the breeze it played with had been out of doors so long.
Thus we sailed, not being able to fly, but as next best, making a
long furrow in the fields of the Merrimack toward our home, with
our wings spread, but never lifting our heel from the watery
trench; gracefully ploughing homeward with our brisk and willing
team, wind and stream, pulling together, the former yet a wild
steer, yoked to his more sedate fellow.  It was very near flying,
as when the duck rushes through the water with an impulse of her
wings, throwing the spray about her, before she can rise.  How we
had stuck fast if drawn up but a few feet on the shore!
When we reached the great bend just above Middlesex, where the
river runs east thirty-five miles to the sea, we at length lost
the aid of this propitious wind, though we contrived to make one
long and judicious tack carry us nearly to the locks of the
canal.  We were here locked through at noon by our old friend,
the lover of the higher mathematics, who seemed glad to see us
safe back again through so many locks; but we did not stop to
consider any of his problems, though we could cheerfully have
spent a whole autumn in this way another time, and never have
asked what his religion was.  It is so rare to meet with a man
out-doors who cherishes a worthy thought in his mind, which is
independent of the labor of his hands.  Behind every man's
busy-ness there should be a level of undisturbed serenity and
industry, as within the reef encircling a coral isle there is
always an expanse of still water, where the depositions are going
on which will finally raise it above the surface.
The eye which can appreciate the naked and absolute beauty of a
scientific truth is far more rare than that which is attracted by
a moral one.  Few detect the morality in the former, or the
science in the latter.  Aristotle defined art to be <Lo'gos tou~
e'rgou a'neu hy'l_es>, _The principle of the work without the
wood_; but most men prefer to have some of the wood along with
the principle; they demand that the truth be clothed in flesh and
blood and the warm colors of life.  They prefer the partial
statement because it fits and measures them and their commodities
best.  But science still exists everywhere as the sealer of
weights and measures at least.
We have heard much about the poetry of mathematics, but very
little of it has yet been sung.  The ancients had a juster notion
of their poetic value than we.  The most distinct and beautiful
statement of any truth must take at last the mathematical form.
We might so simplify the rules of moral philosophy, as well as of
arithmetic, that one formula would express them both.  All the
moral laws are readily translated into natural philosophy, for
often we have only to restore the primitive meaning of the words
by which they are expressed, or to attend to their literal
instead of their metaphorical sense.  They are already
_supernatural_ philosophy.  The whole body of what is now called
moral or ethical truth existed in the golden age as abstract
science.  Or, if we prefer, we may say that the laws of Nature
are the purest morality.  The Tree of Knowledge is a Tree of
Knowledge of good and evil.  He is not a true man of science who
does not bring some sympathy to his studies, and expect to learn
something by behavior as well as by application.  It is childish
to rest in the discovery of mere coincidences, or of partial and
extraneous laws.  The study of geometry is a petty and idle
exercise of the mind, if it is applied to no larger system than
the starry one.  Mathematics should be mixed not only with
physics but with ethics, _that_ is _mixed_ mathematics.  The fact
which interests us most is the life of the naturalist.  The
purest science is still biographical.  Nothing will dignify and
elevate science while it is sundered so wholly from the moral
life of its devotee, and he professes another religion than it
teaches, and worships at a foreign shrine.  Anciently the faith
of a philosopher was identical with his system, or, in other
words, his view of the universe.
My friends mistake when they communicate facts to me with so much
pains.  Their presence, even their exaggerations and loose
statements, are equally good facts for me.  I have no respect for
facts even except when I would use them, and for the most part I
am independent of those which I hear, and can afford to be
inaccurate, or, in other words, to substitute more present and
pressing facts in their place.
The poet uses the results of science and philosophy, and
generalizes their widest deductions.
The process of discovery is very simple.  An unwearied and
systematic application of known laws to nature, causes the
unknown to reveal themselves.  Almost any _mode_ of observation
will be successful at last, for what is most wanted is method.
Only let something be determined and fixed around which
observation may rally.  How many new relations a foot-rule alone
will reveal, and to how many things still this has not been
applied!  What wonderful discoveries have been, and may still be,
made, with a plumb-line, a level, a surveyor's compass, a
thermometer, or a barometer!  Where there is an observatory and a
telescope, we expect that any eyes will see new worlds at once.
I should say that the most prominent scientific men of our
country, and perhaps of this age, are either serving the arts and
not pure science, or are performing faithful but quite
subordinate labors in particular departments.  They make no
steady and systematic approaches to the central fact.  A
discovery is made, and at once the attention of all observers is
distracted to that, and it draws many analogous discoveries in
its train; as if their work were not already laid out for them,
but they had been lying on their oars.  There is wanting constant
and accurate observation with enough of theory to direct and
discipline it.
But, above all, there is wanting genius.  Our books of science,
as they improve in accuracy, are in danger of losing the freshness
and vigor and readiness to appreciate the real laws of Nature,
which is a marked merit in the ofttimes false theories of the
ancients.  I am attracted by the slight pride and satisfaction,
the emphatic and even exaggerated style in which some of the
older naturalists speak of the operations of Nature, though they
are better qualified to appreciate than to discriminate the
facts.  Their assertions are not without value when disproved.
If they are not facts, they are suggestions for Nature herself to
act upon.  "The Greeks," says Gesner, "had a common proverb
(<Lagos katheudon>) a sleeping hare, for a dissembler or
counterfeit; because the hare sees when she sleeps; for this is
an admirable and rare work of Nature, that all the residue of her
bodily parts take their rest, but the eye standeth continually
sentinel."
Observation is so wide awake, and facts are being so rapidly
added to the sum of human experience, that it appears as if the
theorizer would always be in arrears, and were doomed forever to
arrive at imperfect conclusions; but the power to perceive a law
is equally rare in all ages of the world, and depends but little
on the number of facts observed.  The senses of the savage will
furnish him with facts enough to set him up as a philosopher.
The ancients can still speak to us with authority, even on the
themes of geology and chemistry, though these studies are thought
to have had their birth in modern times.  Much is said about the
progress of science in these centuries.  I should say that the
useful results of science had accumulated, but that there had
been no accumulation of knowledge, strictly speaking, for
posterity; for knowledge is to be acquired only by a corresponding
experience.  How can we _know_ what we are _told_ merely?  Each
man can interpret another's experience only by his own.  We read
that Newton discovered the law of gravitation, but how many who
have heard of his famous discovery have recognized the same truth
that he did?  It may be not one.  The revelation which was then
made to him has not been superseded by the revelation made to any
successor.
     We see the _planet_ fall,
     And that is all.
In a review of Sir James Clark Ross's Antarctic Voyage of
Discovery, there is a passage which shows how far a body of men
are commonly impressed by an object of sublimity, and which is
also a good instance of the step from the sublime to the
ridiculous.  After describing the discovery of the Antarctic
Continent, at first seen a hundred miles distant over fields of
ice,--stupendous ranges of mountains from seven and eight to
twelve and fourteen thousand feet high, covered with eternal snow
and ice, in solitary and inaccessible grandeur, at one time the
weather being beautifully clear, and the sun shining on the icy
landscape; a continent whose islands only are accessible, and
these exhibited "not the smallest trace of vegetation," only in a
few places the rocks protruding through their icy covering, to
convince the beholder that land formed the nucleus, and that it
was not an iceberg;--the practical British reviewer proceeds
thus, sticking to his last, "On the 22d of January, afternoon,
the Expedition made the latitude of 74 degrees 20' and by 7h
P.M., having ground (ground! where did they get ground?) to
believe that they were then in a higher southern latitude than
had been attained by that enterprising seaman, the late Captain
James Weddel, and therefore higher than all their predecessors,
an extra allowance of grog was issued to the crews as a reward
for their perseverance."
Let not us sailors of late centuries take upon ourselves any airs
on account of our Newtons and our Cuviers; we deserve an extra
allowance of grog only.
We endeavored in vain to persuade the wind to blow through the
long corridor of the canal, which is here cut straight through
the woods, and were obliged to resort to our old expedient of
drawing by a cord.  When we reached the Concord, we were forced
to row once more in good earnest, with neither wind nor current
in our favor, but by this time the rawness of the day had
disappeared, and we experienced the warmth of a summer afternoon.
This change in the weather was favorable to our contemplative
mood, and disposed us to dream yet deeper at our oars, while we
floated in imagination farther down the stream of time, as we had
floated down the stream of the Merrimack, to poets of a milder
period than had engaged us in the morning.  Chelmsford and
Billerica appeared like old English towns, compared with
Merrimack and Nashua, and many generations of civil poets might
have lived and sung here.
What a contrast between the stern and desolate poetry of Ossian,
and that of Chaucer, and even of Shakespeare and Milton, much
more of Dryden, and Pope, and Gray.  Our summer of English poetry
like the Greek and Latin before it, seems well advanced toward
its fall, and laden with the fruit and foliage of the season,
with bright autumnal tints, but soon the winter will scatter its
myriad clustering and shading leaves, and leave only a few
desolate and fibrous boughs to sustain the snow and rime, and
creak in the blasts of ages.  We cannot escape the impression
that the Muse has stooped a little in her flight, when we come to
the literature of civilized eras.  Now first we hear of various
ages and styles of poetry; it is pastoral, and lyric, and
narrative, and didactic; but the poetry of runic monuments is of
one style, and for every age.  The bard has in a great measure
lost the dignity and sacredness of his office.  Formerly he was
called a _seer_, but now it is thought that one man sees as much
as another.  He has no longer the bardic rage, and only conceives
the deed, which he formerly stood ready to perform.  Hosts of
warriors earnest for battle could not mistake nor dispense with
the ancient bard.  His lays were heard in the pauses of the
fight.  There was no danger of his being overlooked by his
contemporaries.  But now the hero and the bard are of different
professions.  When we come to the pleasant English verse, the
storms have all cleared away and it will never thunder and
lighten more.  The poet has come within doors, and exchanged the
forest and crag for the fireside, the hut of the Gael, and
Stonehenge with its circles of stones, for the house of the
Englishman.  No hero stands at the door prepared to break forth
into song or heroic action, but a homely Englishman, who
cultivates the art of poetry.  We see the comfortable fireside,
and hear the crackling fagots in all the verse.
Notwithstanding the broad humanity of Chaucer, and the many
social and domestic comforts which we meet with in his verse, we
have to narrow our vision somewhat to consider him, as if he
occupied less space in the landscape, and did not stretch over
hill and valley as Ossian does.  Yet, seen from the side of
posterity, as the father of English poetry, preceded by a long
silence or confusion in history, unenlivened by any strain of
pure melody, we easily come to reverence him.  Passing over the
earlier continental poets, since we are bound to the pleasant
archipelago of English poetry, Chaucer's is the first name after
that misty weather in which Ossian lived, which can detain us
long.  Indeed, though he represents so different a culture and
society, he may be regarded as in many respects the Homer of the
English poets.  Perhaps he is the youthfullest of them all.  We
return to him as to the purest well, the fountain farthest
removed from the highway of desultory life.  He is so natural and
cheerful, compared with later poets, that we might almost regard
him as a personification of spring.  To the faithful reader his
muse has even given an aspect to his times, and when he is fresh
from perusing him, they seem related to the golden age.  It is
still the poetry of youth and life, rather than of thought; and
though the moral vein is obvious and constant, it has not yet
banished the sun and daylight from his verse.  The loftiest
strains of the muse are, for the most part, sublimely plaintive,
and not a carol as free as nature's.  The content which the sun
shines to celebrate from morning to evening, is unsung.  The muse
solaces herself, and is not ravished but consoled.  There is a
catastrophe implied, and a tragic element in all our verse, and
less of the lark and morning dews, than of the nightingale and
evening shades.  But in Homer and Chaucer there is more of the
innocence and serenity of youth than in the more modern and moral
poets.  The Iliad is not Sabbath but morning reading, and men
cling to this old song, because they still have moments of
unbaptized and uncommitted life, which give them an appetite for
more.  To the innocent there are neither cherubim nor angels.  At
rare intervals we rise above the necessity of virtue into an
unchangeable morning light, in which we have only to live right
on and breathe the ambrosial air.  The Iliad represents no creed
nor opinion, and we read it with a rare sense of freedom and
irresponsibility, as if we trod on native ground, and were
autochthones of the soil.
Chaucer had eminently the habits of a literary man and a scholar.
There were never any times so stirring that there were not to be
found some sedentary still.  He was surrounded by the din of
arms.  The battles of Hallidon Hill and Neville's Cross, and the
still more memorable battles of Cressy and Poictiers, were fought
in his youth; but these did not concern our poet much, Wickliffe
and his reform much more.  He regarded himself always as one
privileged to sit and converse with books.  He helped to
establish the literary class.  His character as one of the
fathers of the English language would alone make his works
important, even those which have little poetical merit.  He was
as simple as Wordsworth in preferring his homely but vigorous
Saxon tongue, when it was neglected by the court, and had not yet
attained to the dignity of a literature, and rendered a similar
service to his country to that which Dante rendered to Italy.  If
Greek sufficeth for Greek, and Arabic for Arabian, and Hebrew for
Jew, and Latin for Latin, then English shall suffice for him, for
any of these will serve to teach truth "right as divers pathes
leaden divers folke the right waye to Rome." In the Testament of
Love he writes, "Let then clerkes enditen in Latin, for they have
the propertie of science, and the knowinge in that facultie, and
lette Frenchmen in their Frenche also enditen their queinte
termes, for it is kyndely to their mouthes, and let us shewe our
fantasies in soche wordes as we lerneden of our dames tonge."
He will know how to appreciate Chaucer best, who has come down to
him the natural way, through the meagre pastures of Saxon and
ante-Chaucerian poetry; and yet, so human and wise he appears
after such diet, that we are liable to misjudge him still.  In
the Saxon poetry extant, in the earliest English, and the
contemporary Scottish poetry, there is less to remind the reader
of the rudeness and vigor of youth, than of the feebleness of a
declining age.  It is for the most part translation of imitation
merely, with only an occasional and slight tinge of poetry,
oftentimes the falsehood and exaggeration of fable, without its
imagination to redeem it, and we look in vain to find antiquity
restored, humanized, and made blithe again by some natural
sympathy between it and the present.  But Chaucer is fresh and
modern still, and no dust settles on his true passages.  It
lightens along the line, and we are reminded that flowers have
bloomed, and birds sung, and hearts beaten in England.  Before
the earnest gaze of the reader, the rust and moss of time
gradually drop off, and the original green life is revealed.  He
was a homely and domestic man, and did breathe quite as modern
men do.
There is no wisdom that can take place of humanity, and we find
_that_ in Chaucer.  We can expand at last in his breadth, and we
think that we could have been that man's acquaintance.  He was
worthy to be a citizen of England, while Petrarch and Boccacio
lived in Italy, and Tell and Tamerlane in Switzerland and in
Asia, and Bruce in Scotland, and Wickliffe, and Gower, and Edward
the Third, and John of Gaunt, and the Black Prince, were his own
countrymen as well as contemporaries; all stout and stirring
names.  The fame of Roger Bacon came down from the preceding
century, and the name of Dante still possessed the influence of a
living presence.  On the whole, Chaucer impresses us as greater
than his reputation, and not a little like Homer and Shakespeare,
for he would have held up his head in their company.  Among early
English poets he is the landlord and host, and has the authority
of such.  The affectionate mention which succeeding early poets
make of him, coupling him with Homer and Virgil, is to be taken
into the account in estimating his character and influence.  King
James and Dunbar of Scotland speak of him with more love and
reverence than any modern author of his predecessors of the last
century.  The same childlike relation is without a parallel now.
For the most part we read him without criticism, for he does not
plead his own cause, but speaks for his readers, and has that
greatness of trust and reliance which compels popularity.  He
confides in the reader, and speaks privily with him, keeping
nothing back.  And in return the reader has great confidence in
him, that he tells no lies, and reads his story with indulgence,
as if it were the circumlocution of a child, but often discovers
afterwards that he has spoken with more directness and economy of
words than a sage.  He is never heartless,
     "For first the thing is thought within the hart,
     Er any word out from the mouth astart."
And so new was all his theme in those days, that he did not have
to invent, but only to tell.
