
We admire Chaucer for his sturdy English wit.  The easy height he
speaks from in his Prologue to the Canterbury Tales, as if he
were equal to any of the company there assembled, is as good as
any particular excellence in it.  But though it is full of good
sense and humanity, it is not transcendent poetry.  For
picturesque description of persons it is, perhaps, without a
parallel in English poetry; yet it is essentially humorous, as
the loftiest genius never is.  Humor, however broad and genial,
takes a narrower view than enthusiasm.  To his own finer vein he
added all the common wit and wisdom of his time, and everywhere
in his works his remarkable knowledge of the world, and nice
perception of character, his rare common sense and proverbial
wisdom, are apparent.  His genius does not soar like Milton's,
but is genial and familiar.  It shows great tenderness and
delicacy, but not the heroic sentiment.  It is only a greater
portion of humanity with all its weakness.  He is not heroic, as
Raleigh, nor pious, as Herbert, nor philosophical, as
Shakespeare, but he is the child of the English muse, that child
which is the father of the man.  The charm of his poetry consists
often only in an exceeding naturalness, perfect sincerity, with
the behavior of a child rather than of a man.
Gentleness and delicacy of character are everywhere apparent in
his verse.  The simplest and humblest words come readily to his
lips.  No one can read the Prioress's tale, understanding the
spirit in which it was written, and in which the child sings _O
alma redemptoris mater_, or the account of the departure of
Constance with her child upon the sea, in the Man of Lawe's tale,
without feeling the native innocence and refinement of the
author.  Nor can we be mistaken respecting the essential purity
of his character, disregarding the apology of the manners of the
age.  A simple pathos and feminine gentleness, which Wordsworth
only occasionally approaches, but does not equal, are peculiar to
him.  We are tempted to say that his genius was feminine, not
masculine.  It was such a feminineness, however, as is rarest to
find in woman, though not the appreciation of it; perhaps it is
not to be found at all in woman, but is only the feminine in man.
Such pure and genuine and childlike love of Nature is hardly to
be found in any poet.
Chaucer's remarkably trustful and affectionate character appears
in his familiar, yet innocent and reverent, manner of speaking of
his God.  He comes into his thought without any false reverence,
and with no more parade than the zephyr to his ear.  If Nature is
our mother, then God is our father.  There is less love and
simple, practical trust in Shakespeare and Milton.  How rarely in
our English tongue do we find expressed any affection for God.
Certainly, there is no sentiment so rare as the love of God.
Herbert almost alone expresses it, "Ah, my dear God!" Our poet
uses similar words with propriety; and whenever he sees a
beautiful person, or other object, prides himself on the
"maistry" of his God.  He even recommends Dido to be his bride,--
     "if that God that heaven and yearth made,
     Would have a love for beauty and goodnesse,
     And womanhede, trouth, and semeliness."
But in justification of our praise, we must refer to his works
themselves; to the Prologue to the Canterbury Tales, the account
of Gentilesse, the Flower and the Leaf, the stories of Griselda,
Virginia, Ariadne, and Blanche the Dutchesse, and much more of
less distinguished merit.  There are many poets of more taste,
and better manners, who knew how to leave out their dulness; but
such negative genius cannot detain us long; we shall return to
Chaucer still with love.  Some natures, which are really rude and
ill-developed, have yet a higher standard of perfection than
others which are refined and well balanced.  Even the clown has
taste, whose dictates, though he disregards them, are higher and
purer than those which the artist obeys.  If we have to wander
through many dull and prosaic passages in Chaucer, we have at
least the satisfaction of knowing that it is not an artificial
dulness, but too easily matched by many passages in life.  We
confess that we feel a disposition commonly to concentrate
sweets, and accumulate pleasures; but the poet may be presumed
always to speak as a traveller, who leads us through a varied
scenery, from one eminence to another, and it is, perhaps, more
pleasing, after all, to meet with a fine thought in its natural
setting.  Surely fate has enshrined it in these circumstances for
some end.  Nature strews her nuts and flowers broadcast, and
never collects them into heaps.  This was the soil it grew in,
and this the hour it bloomed in; if sun, wind, and rain came here
to cherish and expand the flower, shall not we come here to pluck
it?
A true poem is distinguished not so much by a felicitous
expression, or any thought it suggests, as by the atmosphere
which surrounds it.  Most have beauty of outline merely, and are
striking as the form and bearing of a stranger; but true verses
come toward us indistinctly, as the very breath of all
friendliness, and envelop us in their spirit and fragrance.  Much
of our poetry has the very best manners, but no character.  It is
only an unusual precision and elasticity of speech, as if its
author had taken, not an intoxicating draught, but an electuary.
It has the distinct outline of sculpture, and chronicles an early
hour.  Under the influence of passion all men speak thus
distinctly, but wrath is not always divine.
There are two classes of men called poets.  The one cultivates
life, the other art,--one seeks food for nutriment, the other for
flavor; one satisfies hunger, the other gratifies the palate.
There are two kinds of writing, both great and rare; one that of
genius, or the inspired, the other of intellect and taste, in the
intervals of inspiration.  The former is above criticism, always
correct, giving the law to criticism.  It vibrates and pulsates
with life forever.  It is sacred, and to be read with reverence,
as the works of nature are studied.  There are few instances of a
sustained style of this kind; perhaps every man has spoken words,
but the speaker is then careless of the record.  Such a style
removes us out of personal relations with its author; we do not
take his words on our lips, but his sense into our hearts.  It is
the stream of inspiration, which bubbles out, now here, now
there, now in this man, now in that.  It matters not through what
ice-crystals it is seen, now a fountain, now the ocean stream
running under ground.  It is in Shakespeare, Alpheus, in Burns,
Arethuse; but ever the same.  The other is self-possessed and
wise.  It is reverent of genius, and greedy of inspiration.  It
is conscious in the highest and the least degree.  It consists
with the most perfect command of the faculties.  It dwells in a
repose as of the desert, and objects are as distinct in it as
oases or palms in the horizon of sand.  The train of thought
moves with subdued and measured step, like a caravan.  But the
pen is only an instrument in its hand, and not instinct with
life, like a longer arm.  It leaves a thin varnish or glaze over
all its work.  The works of Goethe furnish remarkable instances
of the latter.
There is no just and serene criticism as yet.  Nothing is
considered simply as it lies in the lap of eternal beauty, but
our thoughts, as well as our bodies, must be dressed after the
latest fashions.  Our taste is too delicate and particular.  It
says nay to the poet's work, but never yea to his hope.  It
invites him to adorn his deformities, and not to cast them off by
expansion, as the tree its bark.  We are a people who live in a
bright light, in houses of pearl and porcelain, and drink only
light wines, whose teeth are easily set on edge by the least
natural sour.  If we had been consulted, the backbone of the
earth would have been made, not of granite, but of Bristol spar.
A modern author would have died in infancy in a ruder age.  But
the poet is something more than a scald, "a smoother and polisher
of language"; he is a Cincinnatus in literature, and occupies no
west end of the world.  Like the sun, he will indifferently
select his rhymes, and with a liberal taste weave into his verse
the planet and the stubble.
In these old books the stucco has long since crumbled away, and
we read what was sculptured in the granite.  They are rude and
massive in their proportions, rather than smooth and delicate in
their finish.  The workers in stone polish only their chimney
ornaments, but their pyramids are roughly done.  There is a
soberness in a rough aspect, as of unhewn granite, which
addresses a depth in us, but a polished surface hits only the
ball of the eye.  The true finish is the work of time, and the
use to which a thing is put.  The elements are still polishing
the pyramids.  Art may varnish and gild, but it can do no more.
A work of genius is rough-hewn from the first, because it
anticipates the lapse of time, and has an ingrained polish, which
still appears when fragments are broken off, an essential quality
of its substance.  Its beauty is at the same time its strength,
and it breaks with a lustre.
The great poem must have the stamp of greatness as well as its
essence.  The reader easily goes within the shallowest
contemporary poetry, and informs it with all the life and promise
of the day, as the pilgrim goes within the temple, and hears the
faintest strains of the worshippers; but it will have to speak to
posterity, traversing these deserts, through the ruins of its
outmost walls, by the grandeur and beauty of its proportions.

But here on the stream of the Concord, where we have all the
while been bodily, Nature, who is superior to all styles and
ages, is now, with pensive face, composing her poem Autumn, with
which no work of man will bear to be compared.
In summer we live out of doors, and have only impulses and
feelings, which are all for action, and must wait commonly for
the stillness and longer nights of autumn and winter before any
thought will subside; we are sensible that behind the rustling
leaves, and the stacks of grain, and the bare clusters of the
grape, there is the field of a wholly new life, which no man has
lived; that even this earth was made for more mysterious and
nobler inhabitants than men and women.  In the hues of October
sunsets, we see the portals to other mansions than those which we
occupy, not far off geographically,--
     "There is a place beyond that flaming hill,
     From whence the stars their thin appearance shed,
     A place beyond all place, where never ill,
     Nor impure thought was ever harbored."
Sometimes a mortal feels in himself Nature, not his Father but
his Mother stirs within him, and he becomes immortal with her
immortality.  From time to time she claims kindredship with us,
and some globule from her veins steals up into our own.
     I am the autumnal sun,
     With autumn gales my race is run;
     When will the hazel put forth its flowers,
     Or the grape ripen under my bowers?
     When will the harvest or the hunter's moon,
     Turn my midnight into mid-noon?
     I am all sere and yellow,
     And to my core mellow.
     The mast is dropping within my woods,
     The winter is lurking within my moods,
     And the rustling of the withered leaf
     Is the constant music of my grief.
To an unskilful rhymer the Muse thus spoke in prose:
The moon no longer reflects the day, but rises to her absolute
rule, and the husbandman and hunter acknowledge her for their
mistress.  Asters and golden-rods reign along the way, and the
life-everlasting withers not.  The fields are reaped and shorn of
their pride, but an inward verdure still crowns them.  The
thistle scatters its down on the pool, and yellow leaves clothe
the vine, and naught disturbs the serious life of men.  But
behind the sheaves, and under the sod, there lurks a ripe fruit,
which the reapers have not gathered, the true harvest of the
year, which it bears forever, annually watering and maturing it,
and man never severs the stalk which bears this palatable fruit.
Men nowhere, east or west, live yet a _natural_ life, round which
the vine clings, and which the elm willingly shadows.  Man would
desecrate it by his touch, and so the beauty of the world remains
veiled to him.  He needs not only to be spiritualized, but
_naturalized_, on the soil of earth.  Who shall conceive what
kind of roof the heavens might extend over him, what seasons
minister to him, and what employment dignify his life!  Only the
convalescent raise the veil of nature.  An immortality in his
life would confer immortality on his abode.  The winds should be
his breath, the seasons his moods, and he should impart of his
serenity to Nature herself.  But such as we know him he is
ephemeral like the scenery which surrounds him, and does not
aspire to an enduring existence.  When we come down into the
distant village, visible from the mountain-top, the nobler
inhabitants with whom we peopled it have departed, and left only
vermin in its desolate streets.  It is the imagination of poets
which puts those brave speeches into the mouths of their heroes.
They may feign that Cato's last words were
     "The earth, the air, and seas I know, and all
     The joys and horrors of their peace and wars;
     And now will view the Gods' state and the stars,"
but such are not the thoughts nor the destiny of common men.
What is this heaven which they expect, if it is no better than
they expect?  Are they prepared for a better than they can now
imagine?  Where is the heaven of him who dies on a stage, in a
theatre?  Here or nowhere is our heaven.
