
     "Although we see celestial bodies move
     Above the earth, the earth we till and love."
We can conceive of nothing more fair than something which we have
experienced.  "The remembrance of youth is a sigh." We linger in
manhood to tell the dreams of our childhood, and they are half
forgotten ere we have learned the language.  We have need to be
earth-born as well as heaven-born, <g_egenei~s>, as was said of
the Titans of old, or in a better sense than they.  There have
been heroes for whom this world seemed expressly prepared, as if
creation had at last succeeded; whose daily life was the stuff of
which our dreams are made, and whose presence enhanced the beauty
and ampleness of Nature herself.  Where they walked,
     "Largior hic campos aether et lumine vestit
     Purpureo: Solemque suum, sua sidera norunt."
"Here a more copious air invests the fields, and clothes with
purple light; and they know their own sun and their own stars."
We love to hear some men speak, though we hear not what they say;
the very air they breathe is rich and perfumed, and the sound of
their voices falls on the ear like the rustling of leaves or the
crackling of the fire.  They stand many deep.  They have the
heavens for their abettors, as those who have never stood from
under them, and they look at the stars with an answering ray.
Their eyes are like glow-worms, and their motions graceful and
flowing, as if a place were already found for them, like rivers
flowing through valleys.  The distinctions of morality, of right
and wrong, sense and nonsense, are petty, and have lost their
significance, beside these pure primeval natures.  When I
consider the clouds stretched in stupendous masses across the
sky, frowning with darkness or glowing with downy light, or
gilded with the rays of the setting sun, like the battlements of
a city in the heavens, their grandeur appears thrown away on the
meanness of my employment; the drapery is altogether too rich for
such poor acting.  I am hardly worthy to be a suburban dweller
outside those walls
             "Unless above himself he can
     Erect himself, how poor a thing is man!"
With our music we would fain challenge transiently another and
finer sort of intercourse than our daily toil permits.  The
strains come back to us amended in the echo, as when a friend
reads our verse.  Why have they so painted the fruits, and
freighted them with such fragrance as to satisfy a more than
animal appetite?
     "I asked the schoolman, his advice was free,
     But scored me out too intricate a way."
These things imply, perchance, that we live on the verge of
another and purer realm, from which these odors and sounds are
wafted over to us.  The borders of our plot are set with flowers,
whose seeds were blown from more Elysian fields adjacent.  They
are the pot-herbs of the gods.  Some fairer fruits and sweeter
fragrances wafted over to us, betray another realm's vicinity.
There, too, does Echo dwell, and there is the abutment of the
rainbow's arch.
     A finer race and finer fed
     Feast and revel o'er our head,
     And we titmen are only able
     To catch the fragments from their table.
     Theirs is the fragrance of the fruits,
     While we consume the pulp and roots.
     What are the moments that we stand
     Astonished on the Olympian land!
We need pray for no higher heaven than the pure senses can
furnish, a _purely_ sensuous life.  Our present senses are but
the rudiments of what they are destined to become.  We are
comparatively deaf and dumb and blind, and without smell or taste
or feeling.  Every generation makes the discovery, that its
divine vigor has been dissipated, and each sense and faculty
misapplied and debauched.  The ears were made, not for such
trivial uses as men are wont to suppose, but to hear celestial
sounds.  The eyes were not made for such grovelling uses as they
are now put to and worn out by, but to behold beauty now
invisible.  May we not _see_ God?  Are we to be put off and
amused in this life, as it were with a mere allegory?  Is not
Nature, rightly read, that of which she is commonly taken to be
the symbol merely?  When the common man looks into the sky, which
he has not so much profaned, he thinks it less gross than the
earth, and with reverence speaks of "the Heavens," but the seer
will in the same sense speak of "the Earths," and his Father who
is in them.  "Did not he that made that which is _within_, make
that which is _without_ also?" What is it, then, to educate but
to develop these divine germs called the senses? for individuals
and states to deal magnanimously with the rising generation,
leading it not into temptation,--not teach the eye to squint, nor
attune the ear to profanity.  But where is the instructed
teacher?  Where are the _normal_ schools?
A Hindoo sage said, "As a dancer, having exhibited herself to the
spectator, desists from the dance, so does Nature desist, having
manifested herself to soul--.  Nothing, in my opinion, is more
gentle than Nature; once aware of having been seen, she does not
again expose herself to the gaze of soul."
It is easier to discover another such a new world as Columbus
did, than to go within one fold of this which we appear to know
so well; the land is lost sight of, the compass varies, and
mankind mutiny; and still history accumulates like rubbish before
the portals of nature.  But there is only necessary a moment's
sanity and sound senses, to teach us that there is a nature
behind the ordinary, in which we have only some vague pre-emption
right and western reserve as yet.  We live on the outskirts of
that region.  Carved wood, and floating boughs, and sunset skies,
are all that we know of it.  We are not to be imposed on by the
longest spell of weather.  Let us not, my friends, be wheedled
and cheated into good behavior to earn the salt of our eternal
porridge, whoever they are that attempt it.  Let us wait a
little, and not purchase any clearing here, trusting that richer
bottoms will soon be put up.  It is but thin soil where we stand;
I have felt my roots in a richer ere this.  I have seen a bunch
of violets in a glass vase, tied loosely with a straw, which
reminded me of myself.
     I am a parcel of vain strivings tied
         By a chance bond together,
       Dangling this way and that, their links
         Were made so loose and wide,
                        Methinks,
              For milder weather.
     A bunch of violets without their roots,
         And sorrel intermixed,
       Encircled by a wisp of straw
         Once coiled about their shoots,
                        The law
              By which I'm fixed.
     A nosegay which Time clutched from out
          Those fair Elysian fields,
       With weeds and broken stems, in haste,
          Doth make the rabble rout
                        That waste
              The day he yields.
     And here I bloom for a short hour unseen,
          Drinking my juices up,
       With no root in the land
          To keep my branches green,
                         But stand
              In a bare cup.
     Some tender buds were left upon my stem
         In mimicry of life,
       But ah! the children will not know,
         Till time has withered them,
                         The woe
              With which they're rife.
     But now I see I was not plucked for naught,
         And after in life's vase
       Of glass set while I might survive,
         But by a kind hand brought
                         Alive
               To a strange place.
     That stock thus thinned will soon redeem its hours,
         And by another year,
       Such as God knows, with freer air,
         More fruits and fairer flowers
                       Will bear,
               While I droop here.
This world has many rings, like Saturn, and we live now on the
outmost of them all.  None can say deliberately that he inhabits
the same sphere, or is contemporary with, the flower which his
hands have plucked, and though his feet may seem to crush it,
inconceivable spaces and ages separate them, and perchance there
is no danger that he will hurt it.  What do the botanists know?
Our lives should go between the lichen and the bark.  The eye may
see for the hand, but not for the mind.  We are still being born,
and have as yet but a dim vision of sea and land, sun, moon and
stars, and shall not see clearly till after nine days at least.
That is a pathetic inquiry among travellers and geographers after
the site of ancient Troy.  It is not near where they think it is.
When a thing is decayed and gone, how indistinct must be the
place it occupied!
The anecdotes of modern astronomy affect me in the same way as do
those faint revelations of the Real which are vouchsafed to men
from time to time, or rather from eternity to eternity.  When I
remember the history of that faint light in our firmament, which
we call Venus, which ancient men regarded, and which most modern
men still regard, as a bright spark attached to a hollow sphere
revolving about our earth, but which we have discovered to be
_another world_, in itself,--how Copernicus, reasoning long and
patiently about the matter, predicted confidently concerning it,
before yet the telescope had been invented, that if ever men came
to see it more clearly than they did then, they would discover
that it had phases like our moon, and that within a century after
his death the telescope was invented, and that prediction
verified, by Galileo,--I am not without hope that we may, even
here and now obtain some accurate information concerning that
OTHER WORLD which the instinct of mankind has so long predicted.
Indeed, all that we call science, as well as all that we call
poetry, is a particle of such information, accurate as far as it
goes, though it be but to the confines of the truth.  If we can
reason so accurately, and with such wonderful confirmation of our
reasoning, respecting so-called material objects and events
infinitely removed beyond the range of our natural vision, so
that the mind hesitates to trust its calculations even when they
are confirmed by observation, why may not our speculations
penetrate as far into the immaterial starry system, of which the
former is but the outward and visible type?  Surely, we are
provided with senses as well fitted to penetrate the spaces of
the real, the substantial, the eternal, as these outward are to
penetrate the material universe.  Veias, Menu, Zoroaster,
Socrates, Christ, Shakespeare, Swedenborg,--these are some of our
astronomers.
There are perturbations in our orbits produced by the influence
of outlying spheres, and no astronomer has ever yet calculated
the elements of that undiscovered world which produces them.
I perceive in the common train of my thoughts a natural and
uninterrupted sequence, each implying the next, or, if interruption
 occurs, it is occasioned by a new object being presented to my
_senses_.  But a steep, and sudden, and by these means unaccountable
transition, is that from a comparatively narrow and partial, what
is called common sense view of things, to an infinitely expanded
and liberating one, from seeing things as men describe them, to
seeing them as men cannot describe them.  This implies a sense
which is not common, but rare in the wisest man's experience;
which is sensible or sentient of more than common.
In what enclosures does the astronomer loiter!  His skies are
shoal, and imagination, like a thirsty traveller, pants to be
through their desert.  The roving mind impatiently bursts the
fetters of astronomical orbits, like cobwebs in a corner of its
universe, and launches itself to where distance fails to follow,
and law, such as science has discovered, grows weak and weary.
The mind knows a distance and a space of which all those sums
combined do not make a unit of measure,--the interval between
that which _appears_, and that which _is_.  I know that there are
many stars, I know that they are far enough off, bright enough,
steady enough in their orbits,--but what are they all worth?
They are more waste land in the West,--star territory,--to be
made slave States, perchance, if we colonize them.  I have
interest but for six feet of star, and that interest is
transient.  Then farewell to all ye bodies, such as I have known
ye.
