
You can hardly convince a man of an error in a lifetime, but must
content yourself with the reflection that the progress of science
is slow.  If he is not convinced, his grandchildren may be.  The
geologists tell us that it took one hundred years to prove that
fossils are organic, and one hundred and fifty more, to prove
that they are not to be referred to the Noachian deluge.  I am
not sure but I should betake myself in extremities to the liberal
divinities of Greece, rather than to my country's God.  Jehovah,
though with us he has acquired new attributes, is more absolute
and unapproachable, but hardly more divine, than Jove.  He is not
so much of a gentleman, not so gracious and catholic, he does not
exert so intimate and genial an influence on nature, as many a
god of the Greeks.  I should fear the infinite power and
inflexible justice of the almighty mortal, hardly as yet
apotheosized, so wholly masculine, with no Sister Juno, no
Apollo, no Venus, nor Minerva, to intercede for me, <thum_o*i
phyle'ousa' te, k_edome'n_e te>.  The Grecian are youthful and
erring and fallen gods, with the vices of men, but in many
important respects essentially of the divine race.  In my
Pantheon, Pan still reigns in his pristine glory, with his ruddy
face, his flowing beard, and his shaggy body, his pipe and his
crook, his nymph Echo, and his chosen daughter Iambe; for the
great god Pan is not dead, as was rumored.  No god ever dies.
Perhaps of all the gods of New England and of ancient Greece, I
am most constant at his shrine.
It seems to me that the god that is commonly worshipped in
civilized countries is not at all divine, though he bears a
divine name, but is the overwhelming authority and respectability
of mankind combined.  Men reverence one another, not yet God.  If
I thought that I could speak with discrimination and impartiality
of the nations of Christendom, I should praise them, but it tasks
me too much.  They seem to be the most civil and humane, but I
may be mistaken.  Every people have gods to suit their
circumstances; the Society Islanders had a god called Toahitu,
"in shape like a dog; he saved such as were in danger of falling
from rocks and trees."  I think that we can do without him, as we
have not much climbing to do.  Among them a man could make
himself a god out of a piece of wood in a few minutes, which
would frighten him out of his wits.
I fancy that some indefatigable spinster of the old school, who
had the supreme felicity to be born in "days that tried men's
souls," hearing this, may say with Nestor, another of the old
school, "But you are younger than I.  For time was when I
conversed with greater men than you.  For not at any time have I
seen such men, nor shall see them, as Perithous, and Dryas, and
<poimena la_on>," that is probably Washington, sole "Shepherd of
the People." And when Apollo has now six times rolled westward,
or seemed to roll, and now for the seventh time shows his face in
the east, eyes wellnigh glazed, long glassed, which have
fluctuated only between lamb's wool and worsted, explore
ceaselessly some good sermon book.  For six days shalt thou labor
and do all thy knitting, but on the seventh, forsooth, thy
reading.  Happy we who can bask in this warm September sun, which
illumines all creatures, as well when they rest as when they
toil, not without a feeling of gratitude; whose life is as
blameless, how blameworthy soever it may be, on the Lord's
Mona-day as on his Suna-day.
There are various, nay, incredible faiths; why should we be
alarmed at any of them?  What man believes, God believes.  Long
as I have lived, and many blasphemers as I have heard and seen, I
have never yet heard or witnessed any direct and conscious
blasphemy or irreverence; but of indirect and habitual, enough.
Where is the man who is guilty of direct and personal insolence
to Him that made him?
One memorable addition to the old mythology is due to this
era,--the Christian fable.  With what pains, and tears, and blood
these centuries have woven this and added it to the mythology of
mankind.  The new Prometheus.  With what miraculous consent, and
patience, and persistency has this mythus been stamped on the
memory of the race!  It would seem as if it were in the progress
of our mythology to dethrone Jehovah, and crown Christ in his
stead.
If it is not a tragical life we live, then I know not what to
call it.  Such a story as that of Jesus Christ,--the history of
Jerusalem, say, being a part of the Universal History.  The
naked, the embalmed, unburied death of Jerusalem amid its
desolate hills,--think of it.  In Tasso's poem I trust some
things are sweetly buried.  Consider the snappish tenacity with
which they preach Christianity still.  What are time and space to
Christianity, eighteen hundred years, and a new world?--that the
humble life of a Jewish peasant should have force to make a New
York bishop so bigoted.  Forty-four lamps, the gift of kings, now
burning in a place called the Holy Sepulchre;--a church-bell
ringing;--some unaffected tears shed by a pilgrim on Mount
Calvary within the week.--
"Jerusalem, Jerusalem, when I forget thee, may my right hand
forget her cunning."
"By the waters of Babylon there we sat down, and we wept when we
remembered Zion."
I trust that some may be as near and dear to Buddha, or Christ,
or Swedenborg, who are without the pale of their churches.  It is
necessary not to be Christian to appreciate the beauty and
significance of the life of Christ.  I know that some will have
hard thoughts of me, when they hear their Christ named beside my
Buddha, yet I am sure that I am willing they should love their
Christ more than my Buddha, for the love is the main thing, and I
like him too.  "God is the letter Ku, as well as Khu."  Why need
Christians be still intolerant and superstitious?  The
simple-minded sailors were unwilling to cast overboard Jonah at
his own request.--
   "Where is this love become in later age?
   Alas! 'tis gone in endless pilgrimage
   From hence, and never to return, I doubt,
   Till revolution wheel those times about."
One man says,--
   "The world's a popular disease, that reigns
   Within the froward heart and frantic brains
   Of poor distempered mortals."
Another, that
              "all the world's a stage,
   And all the men and women merely players."
The world is a strange place for a playhouse to stand within it.
Old Drayton thought that a man that lived here, and would be a
poet, for instance, should have in him certain "brave,
translunary things," and a "fine madness" should possess his
brain.  Certainly it were as well, that he might be up to the
occasion.  That is a superfluous wonder, which Dr.  Johnson
expresses at the assertion of Sir Thomas Browne that "his life
has been a miracle of thirty years, which to relate, were not
history but a piece of poetry, and would sound like a fable." The
wonder is, rather, that all men do not assert as much.  That
would be a rare praise, if it were true, which was addressed to
Francis Beaumont,--"Spectators sate part in your tragedies."
Think what a mean and wretched place this world is; that half the
time we have to light a lamp that we may see to live in it.  This
is half our life.  Who would undertake the enterprise if it were
all?  And, pray, what more has day to offer?  A lamp that burns
more clear, a purer oil, say winter-strained, that so we may
pursue our idleness with less obstruction.  Bribed with a little
sunlight and a few prismatic tints, we bless our Maker, and stave
off his wrath with hymns.
   I make ye an offer,
   Ye gods, hear the scoffer,
   The scheme will not hurt you,
   If ye will find goodness, I will find virtue.
   Though I am your creature,
   And child of your nature,
   I have pride still unbended,
   And blood undescended,
   Some free independence,
   And my own descendants.
   I cannot toil blindly,
   Though ye behave kindly,
   And I swear by the rood,
   I'll be slave to no God.
   If ye will deal plainly,
   I will strive mainly,
   If ye will discover,
   Great plans to your lover,
   And give him a sphere
   Somewhat larger than here.
"Verily, my angels! I was abashed on account of my servant, who
had no Providence but me; therefore did I pardon him."--_The
Gulistan of Sadi._
Most people with whom I talk, men and women even of some
originality and genius, have their scheme of the universe all cut
and dried,--very _dry_, I assure you, to hear, dry enough to
burn, dry-rotted and powder-post, methinks,--which they set up
between you and them in the shortest intercourse; an ancient and
tottering frame with all its boards blown off.  They do not walk
without their bed.  Some, to me, seemingly very unimportant and
unsubstantial things and relations, are for them everlastingly
settled,--as Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, and the like.  These
are like the everlasting hills to them.  But in all my wanderings
I never came across the least vestige of authority for these
things.  They have not left so distinct a trace as the delicate
flower of a remote geological period on the coal in my grate.
The wisest man preaches no doctrines; he has no scheme; he sees
no rafter, not even a cobweb, against the heavens.  It is clear
sky.  If I ever see more clearly at one time than at another, the
medium through which I see is clearer.  To see from earth to
heaven, and see there standing, still a fixture, that old Jewish
scheme!  What right have you to hold up this obstacle to my
understanding you, to your understanding me!  You did not invent
it; it was imposed on you.  Examine your authority.  Even Christ,
we fear, had his scheme, his conformity to tradition, which
slightly vitiates his teaching.  He had not swallowed all
formulas.  He preached some mere doctrines.  As for me, Abraham,
Isaac, and Jacob are now only the subtilest imaginable essences,
which would not stain the morning sky.  Your scheme must be the
framework of the universe; all other schemes will soon be ruins.
The perfect God in his revelations of himself has never got to
the length of one such proposition as you, his prophets, state.
Have you learned the alphabet of heaven and can count three?  Do
you know the number of God's family?  Can you put mysteries into
words?  Do you presume to fable of the ineffable?  Pray, what
geographer are you, that speak of heaven's topography?  Whose
friend are you that speak of God's personality?  Do you, Miles
Howard, think that he has made you his confidant?  Tell me of the
height of the mountains of the moon, or of the diameter of space,
and I may believe you, but of the secret history of the Almighty,
and I shall pronounce thee mad.  Yet we have a sort of family
history of our God,--so have the Tahitians of theirs,--and some
old poet's grand imagination is imposed on us as adamantine
everlasting truth, and God's own word!  Pythagoras says, truly
enough, "A true assertion respecting God, is an assertion of
God"; but we may well doubt if there is any example of this in
literature.
The New Testament is an invaluable book, though I confess to
having been slightly prejudiced against it in my very early days
by the church and the Sabbath school, so that it seemed, before I
read it, to be the yellowest book in the catalogue.  Yet I early
escaped from their meshes.  It was hard to get the commentaries
out of one's head and taste its true flavor.--I think that
Pilgrim's Progress is the best sermon which has been preached
from this text; almost all other sermons that I have heard, or
heard of, have been but poor imitations of this.--It would be a
poor story to be prejudiced against the Life of Christ because
the book has been edited by Christians.  In fact, I love this
book rarely, though it is a sort of castle in the air to me,
which I am permitted to dream.  Having come to it so recently and
freshly, it has the greater charm, so that I cannot find any to
talk with about it.  I never read a novel, they have so little
real life and thought in them.  The reading which I love best is
the scriptures of the several nations, though it happens that I
am better acquainted with those of the Hindoos, the Chinese, and
the Persians, than of the Hebrews, which I have come to last.
Give me one of these Bibles and you have silenced me for a while.
When I recover the use of my tongue, I am wont to worry my
neighbors with the new sentences; but commonly they cannot see
that there is any wit in them.  Such has been my experience with
the New Testament.  I have not yet got to the crucifixion, I have
read it over so many times.  I should love dearly to read it
aloud to my friends, some of whom are seriously inclined; it is
so good, and I am sure that they have never heard it, it fits
their case exactly, and we should enjoy it so much together,--but
I instinctively despair of getting their ears.  They soon show,
by signs not to be mistaken, that it is inexpressibly wearisome
to them.  I do not mean to imply that I am any better than my
neighbors; for, alas!  I know that I am only as good, though I
love better books than they.
It is remarkable that, notwithstanding the universal favor with
which the New Testament is outwardly received, and even the
bigotry with which it is defended, there is no hospitality shown
to, there is no appreciation of, the order of truth with which it
deals.  I know of no book that has so few readers.  There is none
so truly strange, and heretical, and unpopular.  To Christians,
no less than Greeks and Jews, it is foolishness and a
stumbling-block.  There are, indeed, severe things in it which no
man should read aloud more than once.--"Seek first the kingdom of
heaven."--"Lay not up for yourselves treasures on earth."--"If
thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the
poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven."--"For what is a
man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own
soul?  or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?"--Think
of this, Yankees!--"Verily, I say unto you, if ye have faith as a
grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove
hence to yonder place; and it shall remove; and nothing shall be
impossible unto you."--Think of repeating these things to a New
England audience!  thirdly, fourthly, fifteenthly, till there are
three barrels of sermons!  Who, without cant, can read them
aloud?  Who, without cant, can hear them, and not go out of the
meeting-house?  They never _were_ read, they never _were_ heard.
Let but one of these sentences be rightly read, from any pulpit
in the land, and there would not be left one stone of that
meeting-house upon another.
Yet the New Testament treats of man and man's so-called spiritual
affairs too exclusively, and is too constantly moral and
personal, to alone content me, who am not interested solely in
man's religious or moral nature, or in man even.  I have not the
most definite designs on the future.  Absolutely speaking, Do
unto others as you would that they should do unto you, is by no
means a golden rule, but the best of current silver.  An honest
man would have but little occasion for it.  It is golden not to
have any rule at all in such a case.  The book has never been
written which is to be accepted without any allowance.  Christ
was a sublime actor on the stage of the world.  He knew what he
was thinking of when he said, "Heaven and earth shall pass away,
but my words shall not pass away." I draw near to him at such a
time.  Yet he taught mankind but imperfectly how to live; his
thoughts were all directed toward another world.  There is
another kind of success than his.  Even here we have a sort of
living to get, and must buffet it somewhat longer.  There are
various tough problems yet to solve, and we must make shift to
live, betwixt spirit and matter, such a human life as we can.
A healthy man, with steady employment, as wood-chopping at fifty
cents a cord, and a camp in the woods, will not be a good subject
for Christianity.  The New Testament may be a choice book to him
on some, but not on all or most of his days.  He will rather go
a-fishing in his leisure hours.  The Apostles, though they were
fishers too, were of the solemn race of sea-fishers, and never
trolled for pickerel on inland streams.
Men have a singular desire to be good without being good for
anything, because, perchance, they think vaguely that so it will
be good for them in the end.  The sort of morality which the
priests inculcate is a very subtle policy, far finer than the
politicians, and the world is very successfully ruled by them as
the policemen.  It is not worth the while to let our imperfections
disturb us always.  The conscience really does not, and ought not
to monopolize the whole of our lives, any more than the heart or
the head.  It is as liable to disease as any other part.  I have
seen some whose consciences, owing undoubtedly to former
indulgence, had grown to be as irritable as spoilt children, and
at length gave them no peace.  They did not know when to swallow
their cud, and their lives of course yielded no milk.
