
    Conscience is instinct bred in the house,
    Feeling and Thinking propagate the sin
    By an unnatural breeding in and in.
    I say, Turn it out doors,
    Into the moors.
    I love a life whose plot is simple,
    And does not thicken with every pimple,
    A soul so sound no sickly conscience binds it,
    That makes the universe no worse than 't finds it.
    I love an earnest soul,
    Whose mighty joy and sorrow
    Are not drowned in a bowl,
    And brought to life to-morrow;
    That lives one tragedy,
    And not seventy;
    A conscience worth keeping,
    Laughing not weeping;
    A conscience wise and steady,
    And forever ready;
    Not changing with events,
    Dealing in compliments;
    A conscience exercised about
    Large things, where one _may_ doubt.
    I love a soul not all of wood,
    Predestinated to be good,
    But true to the backbone
    Unto itself alone,
    And false to none;
    Born to its own affairs,
    Its own joys and own cares;
    By whom the work which God begun
    Is finished, and not undone;
    Taken up where he left off,
    Whether to worship or to scoff;
    If not good, why then evil,
    If not good god, good devil.
    Goodness!--you hypocrite, come out of that,
    Live your life, do your work, then take your hat.
    I have no patience towards
    Such conscientious cowards.
    Give me simple laboring folk,
    Who love their work,
    Whose virtue is a song
    To cheer God along.
I was once reproved by a minister who was driving a poor beast to
some meeting-house horse-sheds among the hills of New Hampshire,
because I was bending my steps to a mountain-top on the Sabbath,
instead of a church, when I would have gone farther than he to
hear a true word spoken on that or any day.  He declared that I
was "breaking the Lord's fourth commandment," and proceeded to
enumerate, in a sepulchral tone, the disasters which had befallen
him whenever he had done any ordinary work on the Sabbath.  He
really thought that a god was on the watch to trip up those men
who followed any secular work on this day, and did not see that
it was the evil conscience of the workers that did it.  The
country is full of this superstition, so that when one enters a
village, the church, not only really but from association, is the
ugliest looking building in it, because it is the one in which
human nature stoops the lowest and is most disgraced.  Certainly,
such temples as these shall erelong cease to deform the
landscape.  There are few things more disheartening and disgusting
than when you are walking the streets of a strange village on the
Sabbath, to hear a preacher shouting like a boatswain in a gale
of wind, and thus harshly profaning the quiet atmosphere of the
day.  You fancy him to have taken off his coat, as when men are
about to do hot and dirty work.
If I should ask the minister of Middlesex to let me speak in his
pulpit on a Sunday, he would object, because I do not _pray_ as
he does, or because I am not _ordained_.  What under the sun are
these things?
Really, there is no infidelity, now-a-days, so great as that
which prays, and keeps the Sabbath, and rebuilds the churches.
The sealer of the South Pacific preaches a truer doctrine.  The
church is a sort of hospital for men's souls, and as full of
quackery as the hospital for their bodies.  Those who are taken
into it live like pensioners in their Retreat or Sailor's Sung
Harbor, where you may see a row of religious cripples sitting
outside in sunny weather.  Let not the apprehension that he may
one day have to occupy a ward therein, discourage the cheerful
labors of the able-souled man.  While he remembers the sick in
their extremities, let him not look thither as to his goal.  One
is sick at heart of this pagoda worship.  It is like the beating
of gongs in a Hindoo subterranean temple.  In dark places and
dungeons the preacher's words might perhaps strike root and grow,
but not in broad daylight in any part of the world that I know.
The sound of the Sabbath bell far away, now breaking on these
shores, does not awaken pleasing associations, but melancholy and
sombre ones rather.  One involuntarily rests on his oar, to humor
his unusually meditative mood.  It is as the sound of many
catechisms and religious books twanging a canting peal round the
earth, seeming to issue from some Egyptian temple and echo along
the shore of the Nile, right opposite to Pharaoh's palace and
Moses in the bulrushes, startling a multitude of storks and
alligators basking in the sun.
Everywhere "good men" sound a retreat, and the word has gone
forth to fall back on innocence.  Fall forward rather on to
whatever there is there.  Christianity only hopes.  It has hung
its harp on the willows, and cannot sing a song in a strange
land.  It has dreamed a sad dream, and does not yet welcome the
morning with joy.  The mother tells her falsehoods to her child,
but, thank Heaven, the child does not grow up in its parent's
shadow.  Our mother's faith has not grown with her experience.
Her experience has been too much for her.  The lesson of life was
too hard for her to learn.
It is remarkable, that almost all speakers and writers feel it to
be incumbent on them, sooner or later, to prove or to acknowledge
the personality of God.  Some Earl of Bridgewater, thinking it
better late than never, has provided for it in his will.  It is a
sad mistake.  In reading a work on agriculture, we have to skip
the author's moral reflections, and the words "Providence" and
"He" scattered along the page, to come at the profitable level of
what he has to say.  What he calls his religion is for the most
part offensive to the nostrils.  He should know better than
expose himself, and keep his foul sores covered till they are
quite healed.  There is more religion in men's science than there
is science in their religion.  Let us make haste to the report of
the committee on swine.
A man's real faith is never contained in his creed, nor is his
creed an article of his faith.  The last is never adopted.  This
it is that permits him to smile ever, and to live even as bravely
as he does.  And yet he clings anxiously to his creed, as to a
straw, thinking that that does him good service because his sheet
anchor does not drag.
In most men's religion, the ligature, which should be its
umbilical cord connecting them with divinity, is rather like that
thread which the accomplices of Cylon held in their hands when
they went abroad from the temple of Minerva, the other end being
attached to the statue of the goddess.  But frequently, as in
their case, the thread breaks, being stretched, and they are left
without an asylum.
  "A good and pious man reclined his head on the bosom of
  contemplation, and was absorbed in the ocean of a revery.  At
  the instant when he awaked from his vision, one of his friends,
  by way of pleasantry, said, What rare gift have you brought us
  from that garden, where you have been recreating?  He replied,
  I fancied to myself and said, when I can reach the rose-bower,
  I will fill my lap with the flowers, and bring them as a
  present to my friends; but when I got there, the fragrance of
  the roses so intoxicated me, that the skirt dropped from my
  hands.----`O bird of dawn! learn the warmth of affection from
  the moth; for that scorched creature gave up the ghost, and
  uttered not a groan: These vain pretenders are ignorant of him
  they seek after; for of him that knew him we never heard
  again:--O thou! who towerest above the flights of conjecture,
  opinion, and comprehension; whatever has been reported of thee
  we have heard and read; the congregation is dismissed, and life
  drawn to a close; and we still rest at our first encomium of
  thee!'"--_Sadi_.
By noon we were let down into the Merrimack through the locks at
Middlesex, just above Pawtucket Falls, by a serene and
liberal-minded man, who came quietly from his book, though his
duties, we supposed, did not require him to open the locks on
Sundays.  With him we had a just and equal encounter of the eyes,
as between two honest men.
The movements of the eyes express the perpetual and unconscious
courtesy of the parties.  It is said, that a rogue does not look
you in the face, neither does an honest man look at you as if he
had his reputation to establish.  I have seen some who did not
know when to turn aside their eyes in meeting yours.  A truly
confident and magnanimous spirit is wiser than to contend for the
mastery in such encounters.  Serpents alone conquer by the
steadiness of their gaze.  My friend looks me in the face and
sees me, that is all.
The best relations were at once established between us and this
man, and though few words were spoken, he could not conceal a
visible interest in us and our excursion.  He was a lover of the
higher mathematics, as we found, and in the midst of some vast
sunny problem, when we overtook him and whispered our conjectures.
By this man we were presented with the freedom of the Merrimack.
We now felt as if we were fairly launched on the ocean-stream of
our voyage, and were pleased to find that our boat would float on
Merrimack water.  We began again busily to put in practice those
old arts of rowing, steering, and paddling.  It seemed a strange
phenomenon to us that the two rivers should mingle their waters
so readily, since we had never associated them in our thoughts.
As we glided over the broad bosom of the Merrimack, between
Chelmsford and Dracut, at noon, here a quarter of a mile wide,
the rattling of our oars was echoed over the water to those
villages, and their slight sounds to us.  Their harbors lay as
smooth and fairy-like as the Lido, or Syracuse, or Rhodes, in our
imagination, while, like some strange roving craft, we flitted
past what seemed the dwellings of noble home-staying men, seemingly
as conspicuous as if on an eminence, or floating upon a tide
which came up to those villagers' breasts.  At a third of a mile
over the water we heard distinctly some children repeating their
catechism in a cottage near the shore, while in the broad
shallows between, a herd of cows stood lashing their sides, and
waging war with the flies.
Two hundred years ago other catechizing than this was going on
here; for here came the Sachem Wannalancet, and his people, and
sometimes Tahatawan, our Concord Sachem, who afterwards had a
church at home, to catch fish at the falls; and here also came
John Eliot, with the Bible and Catechism, and Baxter's Call to
the Unconverted, and other tracts, done into the Massachusetts
tongue, and taught them Christianity meanwhile.  "This place,"
says Gookin, referring to Wamesit,
  "being an ancient and capital seat of Indians, they come to
  fish; and this good man takes this opportunity to spread the
  net of the gospel, to fish for their souls."--"May 5th, 1674,"
  he continues, "according to our usual custom, Mr. Eliot and
  myself took our journey to Wamesit, or Pawtuckett; and arriving
  there that evening, Mr. Eliot preached to as many of them as
  could be got together, out of Matt.  xxii.  1, the parable
  of the marriage of the king's son.  We met at the wigwam of one
  called Wannalancet, about two miles from the town, near
  Pawtuckett falls, and bordering upon Merrimak river.  This
  person, Wannalancet, is the eldest son of old Pasaconaway, the
  chiefest sachem of Pawtuckett.  He is a sober and grave person,
  and of years, between fifty and sixty.  He hath been always
  loving and friendly to the English."  As yet, however, they had
  not prevailed on him to embrace the Christian religion.  "But
  at this time," says Gookin, "May 6, 1674,"--"after some
  deliberation and serious pause, he stood up, and made a speech
  to this effect:--`I must acknowledge I have, all my days, used
  to pass in an old canoe, (alluding to his frequent custom to
  pass in a canoe upon the river,) and now you exhort me to
  change and leave my old canoe, and embark in a new canoe, to
  which I have hitherto been unwilling; but now I yield up myself
  to your advice, and enter into a new canoe, and do engage to
  pray to God hereafter.'"  One "Mr. Richard Daniel, a gentleman
  that lived in Billerica," who with other "persons of quality"
  was present, "desired brother Eliot to tell the sachem from
  him, that it may be, while he went in his old canoe, he passed
  in a quiet stream; but the end thereof was death and
  destruction to soul and body.  But now he went into a new
  canoe, perhaps he would meet with storms and trials, but yet he
  should be encouraged to persevere, for the end of his voyage
  would be everlasting rest."--"Since that time, I hear this
  sachem doth persevere, and is a constant and diligent hearer of
  God's word, and sanctifieth the Sabbath, though he doth travel
  to Wamesit meeting every Sabbath, which is above two miles; and
  though sundry of his people have deserted him, since he
  subjected to the gospel, yet he continues and   persists."--
  _Gookin's Hist. Coll. of the Indians in New England_, 1674.
Already, as appears from the records, "At a General Court
held at Boston in New England, the 7th of the first month,
1643."--"Wassamequin, Nashoonon, Kutchamaquin, Massaconomet,
and Squaw Sachem, did voluntarily submit themselves" to the
English; and among other things did "promise to be willing from
time to time to be instructed in the knowledge of God." Being
asked "Not to do any unnecessary work on the Sabbath day,
especially within the gates of Christian towns," they answered,
"It is easy to them; they have not much to do on any day, and
they can well take their rest on that day."--"So," says Winthrop,
in his Journal, "we causing them to understand the articles, and
all the ten commandments of God, and they freely assenting to
all, they were solemnly received, and then presented the Court
with twenty-six fathom more of wampom; and the Court gave each of
them a coat of two yards of cloth, and their dinner; and to them
and their men, every of them, a cup of sack at their departure;
so they took leave and went away."
What journeyings on foot and on horseback through the wilderness,
to preach the Gospel to these minks and muskrats! who first, no
doubt, listened with their red ears out of a natural hospitality
and courtesy, and afterward from curiosity or even interest, till
at length there were "praying Indians," and, as the General Court
wrote to Cromwell, the "work is brought to this perfection, that
some of the Indians themselves can pray and prophesy in a
comfortable manner."
It was in fact an old battle and hunting ground through which we
had been floating, the ancient dwelling-place of a race of
hunters and warriors.  Their weirs of stone, their arrowheads and
hatchets, their pestles, and the mortars in which they pounded
Indian corn before the white man had tasted it, lay concealed in
the mud of the river bottom.  Tradition still points out the
spots where they took fish in the greatest numbers, by such arts
as they possessed.  It is a rapid story the historian will have
to put together.  Miantonimo,--Winthrop,--Webster.  Soon he comes
from Montaup to Bunker Hill, from bear-skins, parched corn, bows
and arrows, to tiled roofs, wheat-fields, guns and swords.
Pawtucket and Wamesit, where the Indians resorted in the fishing
season, are now Lowell, the city of spindles and Manchester of
America, which sends its cotton cloth round the globe.  Even we
youthful voyagers had spent a part of our lives in the village of
Chelmsford, when the present city, whose bells we heard, was its
obscure north district only, and the giant weaver was not yet
fairly born.  So old are we; so young is it.
We were thus entering the State of New Hampshire on the bosom of
the flood formed by the tribute of its innumerable valleys.  The
river was the only key which could unlock its maze, presenting
its hills and valleys, its lakes and streams, in their natural
order and position.  The MERRIMACK, or Sturgeon River, is formed
by the confluence of the Pemigewasset, which rises near the Notch
of the White Mountains, and the Winnipiseogee, which drains the
lake of the same name, signifying "The Smile of the Great
Spirit." From their junction it runs south seventy-eight miles to
Massachusetts, and thence east thirty-five miles to the sea.  I
have traced its stream from where it bubbles out of the rocks of
the White Mountains above the clouds, to where it is lost amid
the salt billows of the ocean on Plum Island beach.  At first it
comes on murmuring to itself by the base of stately and retired
mountains, through moist primitive woods whose juices it
receives, where the bear still drinks it, and the cabins of
settlers are far between, and there are few to cross its stream;
enjoying in solitude its cascades still unknown to fame; by long
ranges of mountains of Sandwich and of Squam, slumbering like
tumuli of Titans, with the peaks of Moosehillock, the Haystack,
and Kearsarge reflected in its waters; where the maple and the
raspberry, those lovers of the hills, flourish amid temperate
dews;--flowing long and full of meaning, but untranslatable as
its name Pemigewasset, by many a pastured Pelion and Ossa, where
unnamed muses haunt, tended by Oreads, Dryads, Naiads, and
receiving the tribute of many an untasted Hippocrene.  There are
earth, air, fire, and water,--very well, this is water, and down
it comes.
   Such water do the gods distil,
   And pour down every hill
      For their New England men;
   A draught of this wild nectar bring,
   And I'll not taste the spring
      Of Helicon again.
Falling all the way, and yet not discouraged by the lowest fall.
By the law of its birth never to become stagnant, for it has come
out of the clouds, and down the sides of precipices worn in the
flood, through beaver-dams broke loose, not splitting but
splicing and mending itself, until it found a breathing-place in
this low land.  There is no danger now that the sun will steal it
back to heaven again before it reach the sea, for it has a
warrant even to recover its own dews into its bosom again with
interest at every eve.
It was already the water of Squam and Newfound Lake and
Winnipiseogee, and White Mountain snow dissolved, on which we
were floating, and Smith's and Baker's and Mad Rivers, and Nashua
and Souhegan and Piscataquoag, and Suncook and Soucook and
Contoocook, mingled in incalculable proportions, still fluid,
yellowish, restless all, with an ancient, ineradicable
inclination to the sea.
So it flows on down by Lowell and Haverhill, at which last place
it first suffers a sea change, and a few masts betray the
vicinity of the ocean.  Between the towns of Amesbury and Newbury
it is a broad commercial river, from a third to half a mile in
width, no longer skirted with yellow and crumbling banks, but
backed by high green hills and pastures, with frequent white
beaches on which the fishermen draw up their nets.  I have passed
down this portion of the river in a steamboat, and it was a
pleasant sight to watch from its deck the fishermen dragging
their seines on the distant shore, as in pictures of a foreign
strand.  At intervals you may meet with a schooner laden with
lumber, standing up to Haverhill, or else lying at anchor or
aground, waiting for wind or tide; until, at last, you glide
under the famous Chain Bridge, and are landed at Newburyport.
Thus she who at first was "poore of waters, naked of renowne,"
having received so many fair tributaries, as was said of the
Forth,
   "Doth grow the greater still, the further downe;
      Till that abounding both in power and fame,
      She long doth strive to give the sea her name";
