
The "white-armed goddess Juno," sent by the Father of gods and
men for Iris and Apollo,
   "Went down the Idaean mountains to far Olympus,
   As when the mind of a man, who has come over much earth,
   Sallies forth, and he reflects with rapid thoughts,
   There was I, and there, and remembers many things;
   So swiftly the august Juno hastening flew through the air,
   And came to high Olympus."
His scenery is always true, and not invented.  He does not leap in
imagination from Asia to Greece, through mid air,
   <epei_e` ma'la polla` metaxy'
    Ourea' te skioe'nta, thala'ssa te _ech_e'essa.>
        for there are very many
   Shady mountains and resounding seas between.
If his messengers repair but to the tent of Achilles, we do not
wonder how they got there, but accompany them step by step along
the shore of the resounding sea.  Nestor's account of the march
of the Pylians against the Epeians is extremely lifelike:--
   "Then rose up to them sweet-worded Nestor, the shrill orator
       of the Pylians,
   And words sweeter than honey flowed from his tongue."
This time, however, he addresses Patroclus alone: "A certain
river, Minyas by name, leaps seaward near to Arene, where we
Pylians wait the dawn, both horse and foot.  Thence with all
haste we sped us on the morrow ere 't was noonday, accoutred for
the fight, even to Alpheus's sacred source," &c.  We fancy that
we hear the subdued murmuring of the Minyas discharging its
waters into the main the livelong night, and the hollow sound of
the waves breaking on the shore,--until at length we are cheered
at the close of a toilsome march by the gurgling fountains of
Alpheus.
There are few books which are fit to be remembered in our wisest
hours, but the Iliad is brightest in the serenest days, and
embodies still all the sunlight that fell on Asia Minor.  No
modern joy or ecstasy of ours can lower its height or dim its
lustre, but there it lies in the east of literature, as it were
the earliest and latest production of the mind.  The ruins of
Egypt oppress and stifle us with their dust, foulness preserved
in cassia and pitch, and swathed in linen; the death of that
which never lived.  But the rays of Greek poetry struggle down to
us, and mingle with the sunbeams of the recent day.  The statue
of Memnon is cast down, but the shaft of the Iliad still meets
the sun in his rising.
     "Homer is gone; and where is Jove? and where
      The rival cities seven?  His song outlives
      Time, tower, and god,--all that then was, save Heaven."
So too, no doubt, Homer had his Homer, and Orpheus his Orpheus,
in the dim antiquity which preceded them.  The mythological
system of the ancients, and it is still the mythology of the
moderns, the poem of mankind, interwoven so wonderfully with
their astronomy, and matching in grandeur and harmony the
architecture of the heavens themselves, seems to point to a time
when a mightier genius inhabited the earth.  But, after all, man
is the great poet, and not Homer nor Shakespeare; and our
language itself, and the common arts of life, are his work.
Poetry is so universally true and independent of experience, that
it does not need any particular biography to illustrate it, but
we refer it sooner or later to some Orpheus or Linus, and after
ages to the genius of humanity and the gods themselves.
It would be worth the while to select our reading, for books are
the society we keep; to read only the serenely true; never
statistics, nor fiction, nor news, nor reports, nor periodicals,
but only great poems, and when they failed, read them again, or
perchance write more.  Instead of other sacrifice, we might offer
up our perfect (<telei'a>) thoughts to the gods daily, in hymns or
psalms.  For we should be at the helm at least once a day.  The
whole of the day should not be daytime; there should be one hour,
if no more, which the day did not bring forth.  Scholars are wont
to sell their birthright for a mess of learning.  But is it
necessary to know what the speculator prints, or the thoughtless
study, or the idle read, the literature of the Russians and the
Chinese, or even French philosophy and much of German criticism.
Read the best books first, or you may not have a chance to read
them at all.  "There are the worshippers with offerings, and the
worshippers with mortifications; and again the worshippers with
enthusiastic devotion; so there are those the wisdom of whose
reading is their worship, men of subdued passions and severe
manners;--This world is not for him who doth not worship; and
where, O Arjoon, is there another?"  Certainly, we do not need to
be soothed and entertained always like children.  He who resorts
to the easy novel, because he is languid, does no better than if
he took a nap.  The front aspect of great thoughts can only be
enjoyed by those who stand on the side whence they arrive.
Books, not which afford us a cowering enjoyment, but in which
each thought is of unusual daring; such as an idle man cannot
read, and a timid one would not be entertained by, which even
make us dangerous to existing institutions,--such call I good
books.
All that are printed and bound are not books; they do not
necessarily belong to letters, but are oftener to be ranked with
the other luxuries and appendages of civilized life.  Base wares
are palmed off under a thousand disguises.  "The way to trade,"
as a pedler once told me, "is to _put it right through_," no
matter what it is, anything that is agreed on.
    "You grov'ling worldlings, you whose wisdom trades
     Where light ne'er shot his golden ray."
By dint of able writing and pen-craft, books are cunningly
compiled, and have their run and success even among the learned,
as if they were the result of a new man's thinking, and their
birth were attended with some natural throes.  But in a little
while their covers fall off, for no binding will avail, and it
appears that they are not Books or Bibles at all.  There are new
and patented inventions in this shape, purporting to be for the
elevation of the race, which many a pure scholar and genius who
has learned to read is for a moment deceived by, and finds
himself reading a horse-rake, or spinning-jenny, or wooden
nutmeg, or oak-leaf cigar, or steam-power press, or kitchen
range, perchance, when he was seeking serene and biblical truths.
                          "Merchants, arise,
     And mingle conscience with your merchandise."
Paper is cheap, and authors need not now erase one book before
they write another.  Instead of cultivating the earth for wheat
and potatoes, they cultivate literature, and fill a place in the
Republic of Letters.  Or they would fain write for fame merely,
as others actually raise crops of grain to be distilled into
brandy.  Books are for the most part wilfully and hastily
written, as parts of a system, to supply a want real or imagined.
Books of natural history aim commonly to be hasty schedules, or
inventories of God's property, by some clerk.  They do not in the
least teach the divine view of nature, but the popular view, or
rather the popular method of studying nature, and make haste to
conduct the persevering pupil only into that dilemma where the
professors always dwell.
    "To Athens gowned he goes, and from that school
     Returns unsped, a more instructed fool."
They teach the elements really of ignorance, not of knowledge,
for, to speak deliberately and in view of the highest truths, it
is not easy to distinguish elementary knowledge.  There is a
chasm between knowledge and ignorance which the arches of science
can never span.  A book should contain pure discoveries, glimpses
of _terra firma_, though by shipwrecked mariners, and not the art
of navigation by those who have never been out of sight of land.
_They_ must not yield wheat and potatoes, but must themselves be
the unconstrained and natural harvest of their author's lives.
    "What I have learned is mine; I've had my thought,
     And me the Muses noble truths have taught."
We do not learn much from learned books, but from true, sincere,
human books, from frank and honest biographies.  The life of a
good man will hardly improve us more than the life of a
freebooter, for the inevitable laws appear as plainly in the
infringement as in the observance, and our lives are sustained by
a nearly equal expense of virtue of some kind.  The decaying
tree, while yet it lives, demands sun, wind, and rain no less
than the green one.  It secretes sap and performs the functions
of health.  If we choose, we may study the alburnum only.  The
gnarled stump has as tender a bud as the sapling.
At least let us have healthy books, a stout horse-rake or a
kitchen range which is not cracked.  Let not the poet shed tears
only for the public weal.  He should be as vigorous as a
sugar-maple, with sap enough to maintain his own verdure, beside
what runs into the troughs, and not like a vine, which being cut
in the spring bears no fruit, but bleeds to death in the endeavor
to heal its wounds.  The poet is he that hath fat enough, like
bears and marmots, to suck his claws all winter.  He hibernates
in this world, and feeds on his own marrow.  We love to think in
winter, as we walk over the snowy pastures, of those happy
dreamers that lie under the sod, of dormice and all that race of
dormant creatures, which have such a superfluity of life
enveloped in thick folds of fur, impervious to cold.  Alas, the
poet too is, in one sense, a sort of dormouse gone into winter
quarters of deep and serene thoughts, insensible to surrounding
circumstances; his words are the relation of his oldest and
finest memory, a wisdom drawn from the remotest experience.
Other men lead a starved existence, meanwhile, like hawks, that
would fain keep on the wing, and trust to pick up a sparrow now
and then.
