
"Steighton, you may leave the room; I have some business to
transact with this gentleman.  Come back when you hear the bell."
The individual at the desk rose and departed, closing the door as
he went out.  Mr. Crimsworth stirred the fire, then folded his
arms, and sat a moment thinking, his lips compressed, his brow
knit.  I had nothing to do but to watch him--how well his
features were cut! what a handsome man he was! Whence, then, came
that air of contraction--that narrow and hard aspect on his
forehead, in all his lineaments?
Turning to me he began abruptly:-
"You are come down to ----shire to learn to be a tradesman?"
"Yes, I am."
"Have you made up your mind on the point?  Let me know that at
once."
"Yes."
"Well, I am not bound to help you, but I have a place here
vacant, if you are qualified for it.  I will take you on trial.
What can you do?  Do you know anything besides that useless trash
of college learning--Greek, Latin, and so forth?"
"I have studied mathematics."
"Stuff! I dare say you have."
"I can read and write French and German."
"Hum!"  He reflected a moment, then opening a drawer in a desk
near him took out a letter, and gave it to me.
"Can you read that?" he asked.
It was a German commercial letter; I translated it; I could not
tell whether he was gratified or not--his countenance remained
fixed.
 "It is well;" he-said, after a pause, "that you are acquainted
with something useful, something that may enable you to earn your
board and lodging:  since you know French and German, I will take
you as second clerk to manage the foreign correspondence of the
house.  I shall give you a good salary-l. a year--and now," he
continued, raising his voice, "hear once for all what I have to
say about our relationship, and all that sort of humbug!  I must
have no nonsense on that point; it would never suit me.  I shall
excuse you nothing on the plea of being my brother; if I find you
stupid, negligent, dissipated, idle, or possessed of any faults
detrimental to the interests of the house, I shall dismiss you as
I would any other clerk.  Ninety pounds a year are good wages,
and I expect to have the full value of my money out of you;
remember, too, that things are on a practical footing in my
establishment--business-like habits, feelings, and ideas, suit
me best.  Do you understand?"
"Partly," I replied.  "I suppose you mean that I am to do my work
for my wages; not to expect favour from you, and not to depend on
you for any help but what I earn; that suits me exactly, and on
these terms I will consent to be your clerk."
I turned on my heel, and walked to the window; this time I did
not consult his face to learn his opinion:  what it was I do not
know, nor did I then care.  After a silence of some minutes he
recommenced:--
"You perhaps expect to be accommodated with apartments at
Crimsworth Hall, and to go and come with me in the gig.  I wish
you, however, to be aware that such an arrangement would be quite
inconvenient to me.  I like to have the seat in my gig at liberty
for any gentleman whom for business reasons I may wish to take
down to the hall for a night or so.  You will seek out lodgings
in X----."
Quitting the window, I walked back to the hearth.
"Of course I shall seek out lodgings in X----," I answered.  "It
would not suit me either to lodge at Crimsworth Hall."
My tone was quiet.  I always speak quietly.  Yet Mr. Crimsworth's
blue eye became incensed; he took his revenge rather oddly.
Turning to me he said bluntly--
"You are poor enough, I suppose; how do you expect to live till
your quarter's salary becomes due?"
"I shall get on," said I.
"How do you expect to live?"  he repeated in a louder voice.
"As I can, Mr. Crimsworth."
