
"No!  you read it well; you have been in England?"
"Oh, no!"  with some animation.
"You have been in English families?"
Still the answer was "No." Here my eye, resting on the flyleaf of
the book, saw written, "Frances Evan Henri."
"Your name?"  I asked
"Yes, sir."
My interrogations were cut short; I heard a little rustling
behind me, and close at my back was the directress, professing to
be examining the interior of a desk.
"Mademoiselle," said she, looking up and addressing the teacher,
"Will you have the goodness to go and stand in the corridor,
while the young ladies are putting on their things, and try to
keep some order?"
Mdlle. Henri obeyed.
"What splendid weather!"  observed the directress cheerfully,
glancing at the same time from the window. I assented and was
withdrawing.  "What of your new pupil, monsieur?"  continued she,
following my retreating steps.  "Is she likely to make progress
in English?"
"Indeed I can hardly judge.  She possesses a pretty good accent;
of her real knowledge of the language I have as yet had no
opportunity of forming an opinion."
"And her natural capacity, monsieur?  I have had my fears about
that:  can you relieve me by an assurance at least of its average
power?"
"I see no reason to doubt its average power, mademoiselle, but
really I scarcely know her, and have not had time to study the
calibre of her capacity.  I wish you a very good afternoon."
She still pursued me.  "You will observe, monsieur, and tell me
what you think; I could so much better rely on your opinion than
on my own; women cannot judge of these things as men can, and,
excuse my pertinacity, monsieur, but it is natural I should feel
interested about this poor little girl (pauvre petite); she has
scarcely any relations, her own efforts are all she has to look
to, her acquirements must be her sole fortune; her present
position has once been mine, or nearly so; it is then but natural
I should sympathize with her; and sometimes when I see the
difficulty she has in managing pupils, I reel quite chagrined.  I
doubt not she does her best, her intentions are excellent; but,
monsieur, she wants tact and firmness.  I have talked to her on
the subject, but I am not fluent, and probably did not express
myself with clearness; she never appears to comprehend me.  Now,
would you occasionally, when you see an opportunity, slip in a
word of advice to her on the subject; men have so much more
influence than women have--they argue so much more logically than
we do; and you, monsieur, in particular, have so paramount a
power of making yourself obeyed; a word of advice from you could
not but do her good; even if she were sullen and headstrong
(which I hope she is not), she would scarcely refuse to listen to
you; for my own part, I can truly say that I never attend one of
your lessons without deriving benefit from witnessing your
management of the pupils.  The other masters are a constant
source of anxiety to me; they cannot impress the young ladies
with sentiments of respect, nor restrain the levity natural to
youth:  in you, monsieur, I feel the most absolute confidence;
try then to put this poor child into the way of controlling our
giddy, high-spirited  Brabantoises.  But, monsieur, I would add
one word more; don't alarm her AMOUR PROPRE; beware of inflicting
a wound there.  I reluctantly admit that in that particular she
is blameably--some would say ridiculously--susceptible.  I fear I
have touched this sore point inadvertently, and she cannot get
over it."
During the greater part of this harangue my hand was on the lock
of the outer door; I now turned it.
"Au revoir, mademoiselle," said I, and I escaped.  I saw the
directress's stock of words was yet far from exhausted.  She
looked after me, she would fain have detained me longer.  Her
manner towards me had been altered ever since I had begun to
treat her with hardness and indifference: she almost cringed to
me on every occasion; she consulted my countenance incessantly,
and beset me with innumerable little officious attentions.
Servility creates despotism.  This slavish homage, instead of
softening my heart, only pampered whatever was stern and exacting
in its mood.  The very circumstance of her hovering round me like
a fascinated bird, seemed to transform me into a rigid pillar of
stone; her flatteries irritated my scorn, her blandishments
confirmed my reserve.  At times I wondered what she meant by
giving herself such trouble to win me, when the more profitable
Pelet was already in her nets, and when, too, she was aware that
I possessed her secret, for I had not scrupled to tell her as
much:  but the fact is that as it was her nature to doubt the
reality and under-value the worth of modesty, affection,
disinterestedness--to regard these qualities as foibles of
character--so it was equally her tendency to consider pride,
hardness, selfishness, as proofs of strength.  She would trample
on the neck of humility, she would kneel at the feet of disdain;
she would meet tenderness with secret contempt, indifference she
would woo with ceaseless assiduities.  Benevolence, devotedness,
enthusiasm, were her antipathies; for dissimulation and
self-interest she had a preference--they were real wisdom in her
eyes; moral and physical degradation, mental and bodily
inferiority, she regarded with indulgence; they were foils
capable of being turned to good account as set-offs for her own
endowments.  To violence, injustice, tyranny, she succumbed--they
were her natural masters; she had no propensity to hate, no
impulse to resist them; the indignation their behests awake in
some hearts was unknown in hers.  From all this it resulted that
the false and selfish called her wise, the vulgar and debased
termed her charitable, the insolent and unjust dubbed her
amiable, the conscientious and benevolent generally at first
accepted as valid her claim to be considered one of themselves;
but ere long the plating of pretension wore off, the real
material appeared below, and they laid her aside as a deception.
CHAPTER XVI.
In the course of another fortnight I had seen sufficient of
Frances Evans Henri, to enable me to form a more definite opinion
of her character.  I found her possessed in a somewhat remarkable
degree of at least two good points, viz., perseverance and a
sense of duty; I found she was really capable of applying to
study, of contending with  difficulties.  At first I offered her
the same help which I had always found it necessary to confer on
the others; I began with unloosing for her each knotty point, but
I soon discovered that such help was regarded by my new pupil as
degrading; she recoiled from it with a certain proud impatience.
Hereupon I appointed her long lessons, and left her to solve
alone any perplexities they might present. She set to the task
with serious ardour, and having quickly accomplished one labour,
eagerly demanded more.  So much for her perseverance; as to her
sense of duty, it evinced itself thus:  she liked to learn, but
hated to teach; her progress as a pupil depended upon herself,
and I saw that on herself she could calculate with certainty; her
success as a teacher rested partly, perhaps chiefly, upon the
will of  others; it cost her a most painful effort to enter into
conflict with this foreign will, to endeavour to bend it into
subjection to her own; for in what regarded people in general the
action of her will was impeded by many scruples; it was as
unembarrassed as strong where her own affairs were concerned, and
to it she could at any time subject her inclination, if that
inclination went counter to her convictions of right; yet when
called upon to wrestle with the propensities, the habits, the
faults of others, of children especially, who are deaf to reason,
and, for the most part, insensate to persuasion, her will
sometimes almost refused to act; then came in the sense of duty,
and forced the reluctant will into operation.  A wasteful expense
of energy and labour was frequently the consequence; Frances
toiled for and with her pupils like a drudge, but it was long ere
her conscientious exertions were rewarded by anything like
docility on their part, because they saw that they had power over
her, inasmuch as by resisting her painful attempts to convince,
persuade, control--by forcing her to the employment of coercive
measures--they could inflict upon her exquisite suffering.
Human beings--human children especially--seldom deny themselves
the pleasure of exercising a power which they are conscious of
possessing, even though that power consist only in a capacity to
make others wretched; a pupil whose sensations are duller than
those of his instructor, while his nerves are tougher and his
bodily strength perhaps greater, has an immense advantage over
that instructor, and he will generally use it relentlessly,
because the very young, very healthy, very thoughtless, know
neither how to sympathize nor how to spare.  Frances, I fear,
suffered much; a continual weight seemed to oppress her spirits;
I have said she did not live in the house, and whether in her own
abode, wherever that might be, she wore the same preoccupied,
unsmiling, sorrowfully resolved air that always shaded her
features under the roof of Mdlle. Reuter, I could not tell.
One day I gave, as a devoir, the trite little anecdote of Alfred
tending cakes in the herdsman's hut, to be related with
amplifications.  A singular affair most of the pupils made of it;
brevity was what they had chiefly studied; the majority of the
narratives were perfectly unintelligible; those of Sylvie and
Leonie Ledru alone pretended to anything like sense and
connection.  Eulalie, indeed, had hit, upon a clever expedient
for at once ensuring accuracy and saving trouble; she had
obtained access somehow to an abridged history of England, and
had copied the anecdote out fair.  I wrote on the margin of her
production "Stupid and deceitful," and then tore it down the
middle.
Last in the pile of single-leaved devoirs, I found one of several
sheets, neatly written out and stitched together; I knew the
hand, and scarcely needed the evidence of the signature "Frances
Evans Henri" to confirm my conjecture as to the writer's
identity.
Night was my usual time for correcting devoirs, and my own room
the usual scene of such task--task most onerous hitherto; and it
seemed strange to me to feel rising within me an incipient sense
of interest, as I snuffed the candle and addressed myself to the
perusal of the poor teacher's manuscript.
"Now," thought I, "I shall see a glimpse of what she really is; I
shall get an idea of the nature and extent of her powers; not
that she can be expected to express herself well in a foreign
tongue, but still, if she has any mind, here will be a reflection
of it."
