
"Des betes de somme,--des betes de somme," murmured scornfully
the director. Meantime I offered him his cup of coffee.
"Servez-vous mon garcon," said he blandly, when I had put a
couple of huge lumps of continental sugar into his cup.  "And now
tell me why you stayed so long at Mdlle. Reuter's.  I know that
lessons conclude, in her establishment as in mine, at four
o'clock, and when you returned it was past five."
"Mdlle. wished to speak with me, monsieur."
"Indeed! on what subject? if one may ask."
"Mademoiselle talked about nothing, monsieur."
"A fertile topic! and did she discourse thereon in the
schoolroom, before the pupils?"
"No; like you, monsieur, she asked me to walk into her parlour."
"And Madame Reuter--the old duenna--my mother's gossip, was
there, of course?"
"No, monsieur; I had the honour of being quite alone with
mademoiselle."
"C'est joli--cela," observed M. Pelet, and he smiled and looked
into the fire.
"Honi soit qui mal y pense," murmured I, significantly.
"Je connais un peu ma petite voisine--voyez-vous."
"In that case, monsieur will be able to aid me in finding out
what was mademoiselle's reason for making me sit before her sofa
one mortal hour, listening to the most copious and fluent
dissertation on the merest frivolities."
"She was sounding your character."
"I thought so, monsieur."
"Did she find out your weak point?"
"What is my weak point?"
"Why, the sentimental.  Any woman sinking her shaft deep enough,
will at last reach a fathomless spring of sensibility in thy
breast, Crimsworth."
I felt the blood stir about my heart and rise warm to my cheek.
"Some women might, monsieur."
"Is Mdlle. Reuter of the number?  Come, speak frankly, mon fils;
elle est encore jeune, plus agee que toi peut-etre, mais juste
asset pour unir la tendresse d'une petite maman a l'amour d'une
epouse devouee; n'est-ce pas que cela t'irait superieurement?"
"No, monsieur; I should like my wife to be my wife, and not half
my mother."
"She is then a little too old for you?"
"No, monsieur, not a day too old if she suited me in other
things."
"In what does she not suit you, William?  She is personally
agreeable, is she not?"

"Oh, a child can do that! and what more do you do?"
"What more can I do?"
"Oh, certainly, not much; but you are a teacher, are you not, as
well as a pupil?"
"Yes."
"You teach lace-mending?"
"Yes."
"A dull, stupid occupation; do you like it?"
"No--it is tedious."
"Why do you pursue it?  Why do you not rather teach history,
geography, grammar, even arithmetic?"
"Is monsieur certain that I am myself thoroughly acquainted with
these studies?"
"I don't know; you ought to be at your age."
"But I never was at school, monsieur--"
"Indeed!  What then were your friends--what was your aunt about?
She is very much to blame."
"No monsieur, no--my aunt is good--she is not to blame--she does
what she can; she lodges and nourishes me" (I report Mdlle.
Henri's phrases literally, and it was thus she translated from
the French).  "She is not rich; she has only an annuity of twelve
hundred francs, and it would be impossible for her to send me to
school."
"Rather," thought I to myself on hearing this, but I continued,
in the dogmatical tone I had adopted:--
"It is sad, however, that you should be brought up in ignorance
of the most ordinary branches of education; had you known
something of history and grammar you might, by degrees, have
relinquished your lace-mending drudgery, and risen in the world."
"It is what I mean to do."
"How?  By a knowledge of English alone?  That will not suffice;
no respectable family will receive a governess whose whole stock
of knowledge consists in a familiarity with one foreign
language."
"Monsieur, I know other things."
"Yes, yes, you can work with Berlin wools, and embroider
handkerchiefs and collars--that will do little for you."
Mdlle. Henri's lips were unclosed to answer, but she checked
herself, as thinking the discussion had been sufficiently
pursued, and remained silent.
"Speak," I continued, impatiently; "I never like the appearance
of acquiescence when the reality is not there; and you had a
contradiction at your tongue's end."
"Monsieur, I have had many lessons both in grammar, history,
geography, and arithmetic.  I have gone through a course of each
study."
"Bravo! but how did you manage it, since your aunt could not
afford lo send you to school?"
"By lace-mending; by the thing monsieur despises so much."
