
"Truly!  And now, mademoiselle, it will be a good exercise for
you to explain to me in English how such a result was produced by
such means."
"Monsieur, I begged my aunt to have me taught lace-mending soon
after we came to Brussels, because I knew it was a METIER, a
trade which was easily learnt, and by which I could earn some
money very soon.  I learnt it in a few days, and I quickly got
work, for all the Brussels ladies have old lace--very precious
--which must be mended all the times it is washed.  I earned
money a little, and this money I grave for lessons in the studies
I have mentioned; some of it I spent in buying books, English
books especially; soon I shall try to find a place of governess,
or school-teacher, when I can write and speak English well; but
it will be difficult, because those who know I have been a
lace-mender will despise me, as the pupils here despise me.
Pourtant j'ai mon projet," she added in a lower tone.
"What is it?"
"I will go and live in England; I will teach French there."
The words were pronounced emphatically.  She said "England" as
you might suppose an Israelite of Moses' days would have said
Canaan.
"Have you a wish to see England?"
"Yes, and an intention."
And here a voice, the voice of the directress, interposed:-
"Mademoiselle Henri, je crois qu'il va pleuvoir; vous feriez
bien, ma bonne amie, de retourner chez vous tout de suite."
In silence, without a word of thanks for this officious warning,
Mdlle. Henri collected her books; she moved to me respectfully,
endeavoured to move to her superior, though the endeavour was
almost a failure, for her head seemed as if it would not bend,
and thus departed.
Where there is one grain of perseverance or wilfulness in the
composition, trifling obstacles are ever known rather to
stimulate than discourage.  Mdlle. Reuter might as well have
spared herself the trouble of giving that intimation about the
weather (by-the-by her prediction was falsified by the event--it
did not rain that evening).  At the close of the next lesson I
was again at Mdlle. Henri's desk. Thus did I accost her:--
"What is your idea of England, mademoiselle?  Why do you wish to
go there?"
Accustomed by this time to the calculated abruptness of my
manner, it no longer discomposed or surprised her, and she
answered with only so much of hesitation as was rendered
inevitable by the difficulty she experienced in improvising the
translation of her thoughts from French to English.
"England is something unique, as I have heard and read; my idea
of it is vague, and I want to go there to render my idea clear,
definite."
"Hum!  How much of England do you suppose you could see if you
went there in the capacity of a teacher?  A strange notion you
must have of getting a clear and definite idea of a country!
All you could see of Great Britain would be the interior of a
school, or at most of one or two private dwellings."
"It would be an English school; they would be English dwellings."
"Indisputably; but what then?  What would be the value of
observations made on a scale so narrow?"
"Monsieur, might not one learn something by analogy?
An-echantillon--a--a sample often serves to give an idea of the
whole; besides, narrow and wide are words comparative, are they
not?  All my life would perhaps seem narrow in your eyes--all the
life of a--that little animal subterranean--une taupe--comment
dit-on?"
"Mole."
"Yes--a mole, which lives underground would seem narrow even to
me."
"Well, mademoiselle--what then?  Proceed."
"Mais, monsieur, vous me comprenez."
"Not in the least; have the goodness to explain."
"Why, monsieur, it is just so.  In Switzerland I have done but
little, learnt but little, and seen but little; my life there was
in a circle; I walked the same round every day; I could not get
out of it; had I rested--remained there even till my death, I
should never have enlarged it, because I am poor and not skilful,
I have not great acquirements; when I was quite tired of this
round, I begged my aunt to go to Brussels; my existence is no
larger here, because I am no richer or higher; I walk in as
narrow a limit, but the scene is changed; it would change again
if I went to England.  I knew something of the bourgeois of
Geneva, now I know something of the bourgeois of Brussels; if I
went to London, I would know something of the bourgeois of
London.  Can you make any sense out of what I say, monsieur, or
is it all obscure?"
"I see, I see--now let us advert to another subject; you propose
to devote your life to teaching, and you are a most unsuccessful
teacher; you cannot keep your pupils in order."
