
Hunsden looked at me incredulously.
"I have," said I, "and that definitively."
"You must mean they have cut you, William."
"As you please.  They offered me their patronage on condition of
my entering the Church; I declined both the terms and the
recompence; I withdrew from my cold uncles, and preferred
throwing myself into my elder brother's arms, from whose
affectionate embrace I am now torn by the cruel intermeddling of
a stranger--of yourself, in short."
I could not repress a half-smile as I said this; a similar
demi-manifestation of feeling appeared at the same moment on
Hunsden's lips.
"Oh, I see!"  said he, looking into my eyes, and it was evident he
did see right down into my heart.  Having sat a minute or two
with his chin resting on his hand, diligently occupied in the
continued perusal of my countenance, he went on:-
"Seriously, have you then nothing to expect from the Seacombes?"
"Yes, rejection and repulsion.  Why do you ask me twice?  How can
hands stained with the ink of a counting-house, soiled with the
grease of a wool-warehouse, ever again be permitted to come into
contact with aristocratic palms?"
"There would be a difficulty, no doubt; still you are such a
complete Seacombe in appearance, feature, language, almost
manner, I wonder they should disown you."
"They have disowned me; so talk no more about it."
"Do you regret it, William?"
"No."
Why not, lad?"
"Because they are not people with whom I could ever have had any
sympathy."
"I say you are one of them."
"That merely proves that you know nothing at all about it; I am
my mother's son, but not my uncles' nephew."
"Still--one of your uncles is a lord, though rather an obscure
and not a very wealthy one, and the other a right honourable:
you should consider worldly interest."
"Nonsense, Mr. Hunsden.  You know or may know that even had I
desired to be submissive to my uncles, I could not have stooped
with a good enough grace ever to have won their favour.  I should
have sacrificed my own comfort and not have gained their
patronage in return."
"Very likely--so you calculated your wisest plan was to follow
your own devices at once?"
"Exactly.  I must follow my own devices--I must, till the day of
my death; because I can neither comprehend, adopt, nor work out
those of other people."
Hunsden yawned.  "Well," said he, "in all this, I see but one
thing clearly-that is, that the whole affair is no business of
mine.  "He stretched himself and again yawned. "I wonder what
time it is," he went on:  "I have an appointment for seven
o'clock."
"Three quarters past six by my watch."
"Well, then I'll go." He got up.  "You'll not meddle with trade
again?"  said he, leaning his elbow on the mantelpiece.
"No; I think not."
"You would be a fool if you did.  Probably, after all, you'll
think better of your uncles' proposal and go into the Church."

"No."
"You are in the way of getting one?"
"No."
"That is bad; have you applied to Brown?"
"No, indeed."
"You had better; he often has it in his power to give useful
information in such matters."
"He served me once very well; I have no claim on him, and am not
in the humour to bother him again."
"Oh, if you're bashful, and dread being intrusive, you need only
commission me.  I shall see him to-night; I can put in a word."
"I beg you will not, Mr. Hunsden; I am in your debt already; you
did me an important service when I was at X----; got me out of a
den where I was dying:  that service I have never repaid, and at
present I decline positively adding another item to the account."
"If the wind sits that way, I'm satisfied.  I thought my
unexampled generosity in turning you out of that accursed
counting-house would be duly appreciated some day:  'Cast your
bread on the waters, and it shall be found after many days,' say
the Scriptures.  Yes, that's right, lad--make much of me--I'm a
nonpareil:  there's nothing like me in the common herd.  In the
meantime, to put all humbug aside and talk sense for a few
moments, you would be greatly the better of a situation, and what
is more, you are a fool if you refuse to take one from any hand
that offers it."
"Very well, Mr. Hunsden; now you have settled that point, talk of
something else.  What news from X----?"
"I have not settled that point, or at least there is another to
settle before we get to X----.  Is this Miss Zenobie" (Zoraide,
interposed I)--"well, Zoraide--is she really married to Pelet?"
"I tell you yes--and if you don't believe me, go and ask the cure
of St. Jacques."
"And your heart is broken?"
"I am not aware that it is; it feels all right--beats as usual."
"Then your feelings are less superfine than I took them to be;
you must be a coarse, callous character, to bear such a thwack
without staggering under it."
"Staggering under it?  What the deuce is there to stagger under
in the circumstance of a Belgian  schoolmistress marrying a
French schoolmaster?  The progeny will doubtless be a strange
hybrid race; but that's their Look out--not mine."
"He indulges in scurrilous jests, and the bride was his affianced
one!"
"Who said so?"
"Brown."
I'll tell you what, Hunsden--Brown is an old gossip."
"He is; but in the meantime, if his gossip be founded on less
than fact--if you took no particular interest in Miss Zoraide
--why, O youthful pedagogue! did you leave your place in
consequence of her becoming Madame Pelet?"
"Because--" I felt my face grow a little hot; "because--in
short, Mr. Hunsden, I decline answering any more questions," and
I plunged my hands deep in my breeches pocket.
Hunsden triumphed:  his eyes--his laugh announced victory.
"What the deuce are you laughing at, Mr. Hunsden?"
