
Antipathy is the only word which can express the feeling Edward
Crimsworth had for me--a feeling, in a great measure,
involuntary, and which was liable to be excited by every, the
most trifling movement, look, or word of mine.  My southern
accent annoyed him; the degree of education evinced in my
language irritated him; my punctuality, industry, and accuracy,
fixed his dislike, and gave it the high flavour and poignant
relish of envy; he feared that I too should one day make a
successful tradesman.  Had I been in anything inferior to him, he
would not have hated me so thoroughly, but I knew all that he
knew, and, what was worse, he suspected that I kept the padlock
of silence on mental wealth in which he was no sharer.  If he
could have once placed me in a ridiculous or mortifying position,
he would have forgiven me much, but I was guarded by three
faculties--Caution, Tact, Observation; and prowling and prying as
was Edward's malignity, it could never baffle the lynx-eyes of
these, my natural sentinels.  Day by day did his malice watch my
tact, hoping it would sleep, and prepared to steal snake-like on
its slumber; but tact, if it be genuine, never sleeps.
I had received my first quarter's wages, and was returning to my
lodgings, possessed heart and soul with the pleasant feeling that
the master who had paid me grudged every penny of that
hard-earned pittance--(I had long ceased to regard Mr. Crimsworth
as my brother--he was a hard, grinding master; he wished to be an
inexorable tyrant:  that was all).  Thoughts, not varied but
strong, occupied my mind; two voices spoke within me; again and
again they uttered the same monotonous phrases.  One said:
"William, your life is intolerable."  The other:  "What can you
do to alter it?"  I walked fast, for it was a cold, frosty night
in January; as I approached my lodgings, I turned from a general
view of my affairs to the particular speculation as to whether my
fire would be out; looking towards the window of my sitting-room,
I saw no cheering red gleam.
"That slut of a servant has neglected it as usual," said I, "and
I shall see nothing but pale ashes if I go in; it is a fine
starlight night--I will walk a little farther."
It WAS a fine night, and the streets were dry and even clean for
X----; there was a crescent curve of moonlight to be seen by the
parish church tower, and hundreds of stars shone keenly bright in
all quarters of the sky.
Unconsciously I steered my course towards the country; I had got
into Grove-street, and began to feel the pleasure of seeing dim
trees at the extremity, round a suburban house, when a person
leaning over the iron gate of one of the small gardens which
front the neat dwelling-houses in this street, addressed me as I
was hurrying with quick stride past.
"What the deuce is the hurry?  Just so must Lot have left Sodom,
when he expected fire to pour down upon it, out of burning brass
clouds."
I stopped short, and looked towards the speaker.  I smelt the
fragrance, and saw the red spark of a cigar; the dusk outline of
a man, too, bent towards me over the wicket.
"You see I am meditating in the field at eventide," continued
this shade.  "God knows it's cool work! especially as instead of
Rebecca on a camel's hump, with bracelets on her arms and a ring
in her nose, Fate sends me only a counting-house clerk, in a grey
tweed wrapper."  The voice was familiar to me--its second
utterance enabled me to seize the speaker's identity.
"Mr. Hunsden! good evening."
"Good evening, indeed! yes, but you would have passed me without
recognition if I had not been so civil as to speak first."
"I did not know you."
"A famous excuse!  You ought to have known me; I knew you, though
you were going ahead like a steam-engine.  Are the police after
you?"
"It wouldn't be worth their while; I'm not of consequence enough
to attract them.
"Alas, poor shepherd!  Alack and well-a-day!  What a theme for
regret, and how down in the mouth you must be, judging from the
sound of your voice!  But since you're not running from the
police, from whom are you running? the devil?"
"On the contrary, I am going post to him."
"That is well--you're just in luck:  this is Tuesday evening;
there are scores of market gigs and carts returning to Dinneford
to-night; and he, or some of his, have a seat in all regularly;
so, if you'll step in and sit half-an-hour in my bachelor's
parlour, you may catch him as he passes without much trouble.  I
think though you'd better let him alone to-night, he'll have so
many customers to serve; Tuesday is his busy day in X---- and
Dinneford; come in at all events."
He swung the wicket open as he spoke.
"Do you really wish me to go in?"  I asked.
"As you please--I'm alone; your company for an hour or two would
be agreeable to me; but, if you don't choose to favour me so far,
I'll not press the point.  I hate to bore any one."
It suited me to accept the invitation as it suited Hunsden to
give it.  I passed through the gate, and followed him to the
front door, which he opened; thence we traversed a passage, and
entered his parlour; the door being shut, he pointed me to as
arm-chair by the hearth; I sat down, and glanced round me.
It was a comfortable room, at once snug and handsome; the bright
grate was filled with a genuine ----shire fire, red, clear, and
generous, no penurious South-of-England embers heaped in the
corner of a grate.  On the table a shaded lamp diffused around a
soft, pleasant, and equal light; the furniture was almost
luxurious for a young bachelor, comprising a couch and two very
easy chairs; bookshelves filled the recesses on each side of the
mantelpiece; they were well-furnished, and arranged with perfect
order.  The neatness of the room suited my taste; I hate
irregular and slovenly habits.  From what I saw I concluded that
Hunsden's ideas on that point corresponded with my own.  While he
removed from the centre-table to the side-board a few pamphlets
and periodicals, I ran my eye along the shelves of the book-case
nearest me.  French and German works predominated, the old French
dramatists, sundry modern authors, Thiers, Villemain, Paul de
Kock, George Sand, Eugene Sue; in German--Goethe, Schiller,
Zschokke, Jean Paul Richter; in English there were works on
Political Economy.  I examined no further, for Mr. Hunsden
himself recalled my attention.
"You shall have something," said he, "for you ought to feel
disposed for refreshment after walking nobody knows how far on
such a Canadian night as this; but it shall not be
brandy-and-water, and it shall not be a bottle of port, nor ditto
of sherry.  I keep no such poison.  I have Rhein-wein for my own
drinking, and you may choose between that and coffee."
Here again Hunsden suited me:  if there was one generally
received practice I abhorred more than another, it was the
habitual imbibing of spirits and strong wines.  I had, however,
no fancy for his acid German nectar, but I liked coffee, so I
responded--
"Give me some coffee, Mr. Hunsden."
I perceived my answer pleased him; he had doubtless expected to
see a chilling effect produced by his steady announcement that he
would give me neither wine nor spirits; he just shot one
searching glance at my face to ascertain whether my cordiality
was genuine or a mere feint of politeness.  I smiled, because I
quite understood him; and, while I honoured his conscientious
firmness, I was amused at his mistrust; he seemed satisfied, rang
the bell, and ordered coffee, which was presently brought; for
himself, a bunch of grapes and half a pint of something sour
sufficed.  My coffee was excellent; I told him so, and expressed
the shuddering pity with which his anchorite fare inspired me.
He did not answer, and I scarcely think heard my remark.   At
that moment one of those momentary eclipses I before alluded to
had come over his face, extinguishing his smile, and replacing,
by an abstracted and alienated look, the customarily shrewd,
bantering glance of his eye.  I employed the interval of silence
in a rapid scrutiny of his physiognomy.  I had never observed him
closely before; and, as my sight is very short, I had gathered
only a vague, general idea of his appearance; I was surprised
now, on examination, to perceive how small, and even feminine,
were his lineaments; his tall figure, long and dark locks, his
voice and general bearing, had impressed me with the notion of
something powerful and massive; not at all:--my own features were
cast in a harsher and squarer mould than his.  I discerned that
there would be contrasts between his inward and outward man;
contentions, too; for I suspected his soul had more of will and
ambition than his body had of fibre and muscle. Perhaps, in these
incompatibilities of the "physique" with the "morale," lay the
secret of that fitful gloom; he WOULD but COULD not, and the
athletic mind scowled scorn on its more fragile companion.  As to
his good looks, I should have liked to have a woman's opinion on
that subject; it seemed to me that his face might produce the
same effect on a lady that a very piquant and interesting, though
scarcely pretty, female face would on a man.  I have mentioned
his dark locks--they were brushed sideways above a white and
sufficiently expansive forehead; his cheek had a rather hectic
freshness; his features might have done well on canvas, but
indifferently in marble: they were plastic; character had set a
stamp upon each; expression re-cast them at her pleasure, and
strange metamorphoses she wrought, giving him now the mien of a
morose bull, and anon that of an arch and mischievous girl; more
frequently, the two semblances were blent, and a queer, composite
countenance they made.
