
 And as he from the room withdrew,
  My heart his steps pursued;
 I long'd to prove, by efforts new;
  My speechless gratitude.
 When once again I took my place,
  Long vacant, in the class,
 Th' unfrequent smile across his face
  Did for one moment pass.
 The lessons done; the signal made
  Of glad release and play,
 He, as he passed, an instant stay'd,
  One kindly word to say.
"Jane, till to-morrow you are free
  From tedious task and rule;
 This afternoon I must not see
  That yet pale face in school.
"Seek in the garden-shades a seat,
  Far from the play-ground din;
 The sun is warm, the air is sweet:
  Stay till I call you in."
 A long and pleasant afternoon
  I passed in those green bowers;
 All silent, tranquil, and alone
  With birds, and bees, and flowers.
 Yet, when my master's voice I heard
  Call, from the window, "Jane!"
 I entered, joyful, at the word,
  The busy house again.
 He, in the hall, paced up and down;
  He paused as I passed by;
 His forehead stern relaxed its frown:
  He raised his deep-set eye.
"Not quite so pale," he murmured low.
  Now Jane, go rest awhile."
 And as I smiled, his smoothened brow
  Returned as glad a smile.
 My perfect health restored, he took
  His mien austere again;
 And, as before, he would not brook
  The slightest fault from Jane.
 The longest task, the hardest theme
  Fell to my share as erst,
 And still I toiled to place my name
  In every study first.
 He yet begrudged and stinted praise,
  But I had learnt to read
 The secret meaning of his face,
  And that was my best meed.
 Even when his hasty temper spoke
  In tones that sorrow stirred,
 My grief was lulled as soon as woke
  By some relenting word.
 And when he lent some precious book,
  Or gave some fragrant flower,
 I did not quail to Envy's look,
  Upheld by Pleasure's power.
 At last our school ranks took their ground,
  The hard-fought field I won;
 The prize, a laurel-wreath, was bound
  My throbbing forehead on.
 Low at my master's knee I bent,
  The offered crown to meet;
 Its green leaves through my temples sent
  A thrill as wild as sweet.
 The strong pulse of Ambition struck
  In every vein I owned;
 At the same instant, bleeding broke
  A secret, inward wound.
 The hour of triumph was to me
  The hour of sorrow sore;
 A day hence I must cross the sea,
  Ne'er to recross it more.
 An hour hence, in my master's room
  I with him sat alone,
 And told him what a dreary gloom
  O'er joy had parting thrown.
 He little said; the time was brief,
  The ship was soon to sail,
 And while I sobbed in bitter grief,
  My master but looked pale.
 They called in haste; he bade me go,
  Then snatched me back again;
 He held me fast and murmured low,
 "Why will they part us, Jane?"
"Were you not happy in my care?
  Did I not faithful prove?
 Will others to my darling bear
  As true, as deep a love?
"O God, watch o'er my foster child!
  O guard her gentle head!
 When minds are high and tempests wild
  Protection round her spread!
"They call again; leave then my breast;
  Quit thy true shelter, Jane;
 But when deceived, repulsed, opprest,
  Come home to me again! "
I read--then dreamily made marks on the margin with my pencil;
thinking all the while of other things; thinking that "Jane" was
now at my side; no child, but a girl of nineteen; and she might
be mine, so my heart affirmed; Poverty's curse was taken off me;
Envy and Jealousy were far away, and unapprized of this our quiet
meeting; the frost of the Master's manner might melt; I felt the
thaw coming fast, whether I would or not; no further need for the
eye to practise a hard look, for the brow to compress its expense
into a stern fold:  it was now permitted to suffer the outward
revelation of the inward glow--to seek, demand, elicit an
answering ardour.  While musing thus, I thought that the grass on
Hermon never drank the fresh dews of sunset more gratefully than
my feelings drank the bliss of this hour.
