
"Very; her hair and complexion are just what I admire; and her
turn of form, though quite Belgian, is full of grace."
"Bravo! and her face? her features?  How do you like them?"
"A little harsh, especially her mouth."
"Ah, yes! her mouth," said M. Pelet, and he chuckled inwardly.
"There is character about her mouth--firmness--but she has a very
pleasant smile; don't you think so?"
"Rather crafty."
"True, but that expression of craft is owing to her eyebrows;
have you remarked her eyebrows?"
I answered that I had not.
"You have not seen her looking down then?"  said he.
"No."
"It is a treat, notwithstanding.  Observe her when she has some
knitting, or some other woman's work in hand, and sits the image
of peace, calmly intent on her needles and her silk, some
discussion meantime going on around her, in the course of which
peculiarities of character are being developed, or important
interests canvassed; she takes no part in it; her humble,
feminine mind is wholly with her knitting; none of her features
move; she neither presumes to smile approval, nor frown
disapprobation; her little hands assiduously ply their
unpretending task; if she can only get this purse finished, or
this bonnet-grec  completed, it is enough for her.  If gentlemen
approach her chair, a deeper quiescence, a meeker modesty settles
on her features, and clothes her general mien; observe then her
eyebrows, et dites-moi s'il n'y a pas du chat dans l'un et du
renard dans l'autre."
"I will take careful notice the first opportunity," said I.
"And then," continued M. Pelet, "the eyelid will flicker, the
light-coloured lashes be lifted a second, and a blue eye,
glancing out from under the screen, will take its brief, sly,
searching survey, and retreat again."
I smiled, and so did Pelet, and after a few minutes' silence, I
asked:-
"Will she ever marry, do you think?"
"Marry!  Will birds pair?  Of course it is both her intention and
resolution to marry when she finds a suitable match, and no one
is better aware than herself of the sort of impression she is
capable of producing; no one likes better to captivate in a quiet
way.  I am mistaken if she will not yet leave the print of her
stealing steps on thy heart, Crimsworth."
"Of her steps?  Confound it, no!  My heart is not a plank to be
walked on."
"But the soft touch of a patte de velours will do it no harm."
"She offers me no patte de velours; she is all form and reserve
with me."
"That to begin with; let respect be the foundation, affection the
first floor, love the superstructure; Mdlle. Reuter is a skilful
architect."
"And interest, M. Pelet--interest.  Will not mademoiselle
consider that point ?"
"Yes, yes, no doubt; it will be the cement between every stone.
And now we have discussed the directress, what of the pupils?
N'y-a-t-il pas de belles etudes parmi ces jeunes tetes?"
"Studies of character?  Yes; curious ones, at least, I imagine;
but one cannot divine much from a first interview."
"Ah, you affect discretion; but tell me now, were you not a
little abashed before these blooming young creatures?
"At first, yes; but I rallied and got through with all due
sang-froid."
"I don't believe you."

Frances rose, as if restless; she passed before me to stir the
fire, which did not want stirring; she lifted and put down the
little ornaments on the mantelpiece; her dress waved within a
yard of me; slight, straight, and elegant;, she stood erect on
the hearth.
There are impulses we can control; but there are others which
control us, because they attain us with a tiger-leap, and are our
masters ere we have seen them.  Perhaps, though, such impulses
are seldom altogether bad; perhaps Reason, by a process as brief
as quiet, a process that is finished ere felt, has ascertained
the sanity of the deed Instinct meditates, and feels justified in
remaining passive while it is performed.  I know I did not
reason, I did not plan or intend, yet, whereas one moment I was
sitting solus on the chair near the table, the next, I held
Frances on my knee, placed there with sharpness and decision, and
retained with exceeding tenacity.
"Monsieur!" cried Frances, and was still:  not another word
escaped her lips; sorely confounded she seemed during the lapse
of the first few moments; but the amazement soon subsided; terror
did not succeed, nor fury:  after all, she was only a little
nearer than she had ever been before, to one she habitually
respected and trusted; embarrassment might have impelled her to
contend, but self-respect checked resistance where resistance was
useless.
"Frances, how much regard have you for me?"  was my demand.  No
answer; the situation was yet too new and surprising to permit
speech.  On this consideration, I compelled myself for some
seconds to tolerate her silence, though impatient of it:
presently, I repeated the same question--probably, not in the
calmest of tones; she looked at me; my face, doubtless, was no
model of composure, my eyes no still wells of tranquillity.
"Do speak," I urged; and a very low, hurried, yet still arch
voice said--
"Monsieur, vous me faites mal; de grace lachez un peu ma main
droite."
In truth I became aware that I was holding the said "main droite"
in a somewhat ruthless grasp:  I did as desired; and, for the
third time, asked more gently--
"Frances, how much regard have you for me?"
"Mon maitre, j'en ai beaucoup," was the truthful rejoinder.
"Frances, have you enough to give yourself to me as my wife?--to
accept me as your husband?"
I felt the agitation of the heart, I saw "the purple light of
love" cast its glowing reflection on cheeks, temples, neck; I
desired to consult the eye, but sheltering lash and lid forbade.
"Monsieur," said the soft voice at last,--"Monsieur desire savoir
si je consens--si--enfin, si je veux me marier avec lui?"
"Justement."
"Monsieur sera-t-il aussi bon mari qu'il a ete bon maitre?"
"I will try, Frances."
A pause; then with a new, yet still subdued inflexion of the
voice--an inflexion which provoked while it pleased me
--accompanied, too, by a "sourire a la fois fin et timide" in
perfect harmony with the tone:--
"C'est a dire, monsieur sera toujours un peu entete exigeant,
volontaire--?"
"Have I been so, Frances?"
"Mais oui; vous le savez bien."
"Have I been nothing else?"
"Mais oui; vons avez ete mon meilleur ami."
"And what, Frances, are you to me?"
"Votre devouee eleve, qui vous aime de tout son coeur."
"Will my pupil consent to pass her life with me?  Speak English
now, Frances."
Some moments were taken for reflection; the answer, pronounced
slowly, ran thus:--
