
"You have always made me happy; I like to hear you speak; I like
to see you; I like to be near you; I believe you are very good,
and very superior; I know you are stern to those who are careless
and idle, but you are kind, very kind to the attentive and
industrious, even if they are not clever.  Master, I should be
GLAD to live with you always;" and she made a sort of movement,
as if she would have clung to me, but restraining herself she
only added with earnest emphasis--"Master, I consent to pass my
life with you."
"Very well, Frances."
I drew her a little nearer to my heart; I took a first kiss from
her lips, thereby sealing the compact, now framed between us;
afterwards she and I were silent, nor was our silence brief.
Frances' thoughts, during this interval, I know not, nor did I
attempt to guess them; I was not occupied in searching her
countenance, nor in otherwise troubling her composure.  The peace
I felt, I wished her to feel; my arm, it is true, still detained
her; but with a restraint that was gentle enough, so long as no
opposition tightened it.  My gaze was on the red fire; my heart
was measuring its own content; it sounded and sounded, and found
the depth fathomless.
"Monsieur," at last said my quiet companion, as stirless in her
happiness as a mouse in its terror.  Even now in speaking she
scarcely lifted her head.
"Well, Frances?" I like unexaggerated intercourse; it is not my
way to overpower with amorous epithets, any more than to worry
with selfishly importunate caresses.
"Monsieur est raisonnable, n'eut-ce pas?"
"Yes; especially when I am requested to be so in English:  but
why do you ask me?  You see nothing vehement or obtrusive in my
manner; am I not tranquil enough?"
"Ce n'est pas cela--" began Frances.
"English!" I reminded her.
"Well, monsieur, I wished merely to say, that I should like, of
course, to retain my employment of teaching.  You will teach
still, I suppose, monsieur?"
"Oh, yes!  It is all I have to depend on."
"Bon!--I mean good.  Thus we shall have both the same profession.
I like that; and my efforts to get on will be as unrestrained as
yours--will they not, monsieur?"
"You are laying plans to be independent of me," said I.
"Yes, monsieur; I must be no incumbrance to you--no burden in any
way."
"But, Frances, I have not yet told you what my prospects are.  I
have left M. Pelet's; and after nearly a month's seeking, I have
got another place, with a salary of three thousand francs a year,
which I can easily double by a little additional exertion.  Thus
you see it would be useless for you to fag yourself by going out
to give lessons; on six thousand francs you and I can live, and
live well."
Frances seemed to consider.  There is something flattering to
man's strength, something consonant to his honourable pride, in
the idea of becoming the providence of what he loves--feeding and
clothing it, as God does the lilies of the field.  So, to decide
her resolution, I went on:--
"Life has been painful and laborious enough to you so far,
Frances; you require complete rest; your twelve hundred francs
would not form a very important addition to our income, and what
sacrifice of comfort to earn it!  Relinquish your labours:  you
must be weary, and let me have the happiness of giving you rest."
I am not sure whether Frances had accorded due attention to my
harangue; instead of answering me with her usual respectful
promptitude, she only sighed and said,--
"How rich you are, monsieur!" and then she stirred uneasy in my
arms.  "Three thousand francs!" she  murmured, "While I get only
twelve hundred!" She went on faster.  "However, it must be so for
the present; and, monsieur, were you not saying something about
my giving up my place?  Oh no!  I shall hold it fast;" and her
little fingers emphatically tightened on mine.
"Think of my marrying you to be kept by you, monsieur!  I could
not do it; and how dull my days would be!  You would be away
teaching in close, noisy school-rooms, from morning till evening,
and I should be lingering at home, unemployed and solitary; I
should get depressed and sullen, and you would soon tire of me."
"Frances, you could read and study--two things you
like so well."
"Monsieur, I could not; I like a contemplative life, but I like
an active life better; I must act in some way, and act with you.
I have taken notice, monsieur, that people who are only in each
other's company for amusement, never really like each other so
well, or esteem each other so highly, as those who work together,
and perhaps suffer together."
"You speak God's truth," said I at last, "and you shall have your
own way, for it is the best way.  Now, as a reward for such ready
consent, give me a voluntary kiss."
After some hesitation, natural to a novice in the art of kissing,
she brought her lips into very shy and gentle contact with my
forehead; I took the small gift as a loan, and repaid it
promptly, and with generous interest.
I know not whether Frances was really much altered since the time
I first saw her; but, as I looked at her now, I felt that she was
singularly changed for me; the sad eye, the pale cheek, the
dejected and joyless countenance I remembered as her early
attributes, were quite gone, and now I saw a face dressed in
graces; smile, dimple, and rosy tint, rounded its contours and
brightened its hues.  I had been accustomed to nurse a flattering
idea that my strong attachment to her proved some particular
perspicacity in my nature; she was not handsome, she was not
rich, she was not even accomplished, yet was she my life's
treasure; I must then be a man of peculiar discernment.  To-night
my eyes opened on the mistake I had made; I began to suspect that
it was only my tastes which were unique, not my power of
discovering and appreciating the superiority of moral worth over
physical charms.  For me Frances had physical charms:  in her
there was no deformity to get over; none of those prominent
defects of eyes, teeth, complexion, shape, which hold at bay the
admiration of the boldest male champions of intellect (for women
can love a downright ugly man if he be but talented); had she
been either "edentee, myope, rugueuse, ou bossue," my feelings
towards her might still have been kindly, but they could never
have been impassioned; I had affection for the poor little
misshapen Sylvie, but for her I could never have had love.  It is
true Frances' mental points had been the first to interest me,
and they still retained the strongest hold on my preference; but
I liked the graces of her person too. I derived a pleasure,
purely material, from contemplating the clearness of her brown
eyes, the fairness of her fine skin, the purity of her well-set
teeth, the proportion of her delicate form; and that pleasure I
could ill have dispensed with.  It appeared, then, that I too was
a sensualist, in my temperate and fastidious way.
