
"You need not begin boasting, Monsieur le Professeur; I know
about your appointment to -- College, and all that; Brown has
told me."  Then he intimated that he had returned from Germany
but a day or two since; afterwards, he abruptly demanded whether
that was Madame Pelet-Reuter with whom he had seen me on the
Boulevards.  I was going to utter a rather emphatic negative,
but on second thoughts I checked myself, and, seeming to assent,
asked what he thought of her?
"As to her, I'll come to that directly; but first I've a word for
you.  I see you are a scoundrel; you've no business to be
promenading about with another man's wife. I thought you had
sounder sense than to get mixed up in foreign hodge-podge of this
sort."
"But the lady?"
"She's too good for you evidently; she is like you, but something
better than you--no beauty, though; yet when she rose (for I
looked back to see you both walk away) I thought her figure and
carriage good.  These foreigners understand grace.  What the
devil has she done with Pelet?  She has not been married to him
three months--he must be a spoon!"
I would not let the mistake go too far; I did not like it much.
"Pelet?  How your head runs on Mons. and Madame Pelet!  You are
always talking about them.  I wish to the gods you had wed Mdlle.
Zoraide yourself!"
"Was that young gentlewoman not Mdlle. Zoraide?"
"No; nor Madame Zoraide either."
"Why did you tell a lie, then?"
"I told no lie; but you are is such a hurry.  She is a pupil of
mine--a Swiss girl."
"And of course you are going to be married to her?  Don't deny
that."
"Married!  I think I shall--if Fate spares us both ten weeks
longer.  That is my little wild strawberry, Hunsden, whose
sweetness made me careless of your hothouse grapes."
"Stop!  No boasting--no heroics; I won't hear them.  What is she?
To what caste does she belong?"
I smiled.  Hunsden unconsciously laid stress on the word caste,
and, in fact, republican, lordhater as he was, Hunsden was as
proud of his old ---shire blood, of his descent and family
standing, respectable and respected through long generations
back, as any peer in the realm of his Norman race and
Conquest-dated title.  Hunsden would as little have thought of
taking a wife from a caste inferior to his own, as a Stanley
would think of mating with a Cobden.  I enjoyed the surprise I
should give; I enjoyed the triumph of my practice over his
theory; and leaning over the table, and uttering the words slowly
but with repressed glee, I said concisely--
"She is a lace-mender."
Hunsden examined me.  He did not SAY he was surprised, but
surprised he was; he had his own notions of good breeding.  I saw
he suspected I was going to take some very rash step; but
repressing declamation or remonstrance, he only answered--
"Well, you are the best; judge of your own affairs.  A
lace-mender may make a good wife as well as a lady; but of course
you have taken care to ascertain thoroughly that since she has
not education, fortune or station, she is well furnished with
such natural qualities as you think most likely to conduce to
your happiness.  Has she many relations?"
"None in Brussels."
"That is better.  Relations are often the real evil in such
cases.  I cannot but think that a train of inferior connections
would have been a bore to you to your life's end."
After sitting in silence a little while longer, Hunsden rose, and
was quietly bidding me good evening; the polite, considerate
manner in which he offered me his hand (a thing he had never done
before), convinced me that he thought I had made a terrible fool
of myself; and that, ruined and thrown away as I was, it was no
time for sarcasm or cynicism, or indeed for anything but
indulgence and forbearance.
"Good night, William," he said, in a really soft voice, while his
face looked benevolently compassionate.  "Good night, lad.  I
wish you and your future wife much prosperity; and I hope she
will satisfy your fastidious soul."
I had much ado to refrain from laughing as I beheld the
magnanimous pity of his mien; maintaining, however, a grave air,
I said:--
"I thought you would have liked to have seen Mdlle. Henri?"
"Oh, that is the name!  Yes--if it would be convenient, I should
like to see her--but----." He hesitated.
"Well?"
