
"I should have tried to endure the evil or cure it for awhile;
and when I found it intolerable and incurable, I should have left
my torturer suddenly and silently."
"And if law or might had forced you back again?"
"What, to a drunkard, a profligate, a selfish spendthrift, an
unjust fool?"
"Yes."
"I would have gone back; again assured myself whether or not his
vice and my misery were capable of remedy; and if not, have left
him again."
"And if again forced to return, and compelled to abide?"
"I don't know," she said, hastily.  "Why do you ask me,
monsieur?"
I would have an answer, because I saw a strange kind of spirit in
her eye, whose voice I determined to waken.
"Monsieur, if a wife's nature loathes that of the man she is
wedded to, marriage must be slavery.  Against slavery all right
thinkers revolt, and though torture be the price of resistance,
torture must be dared:  though the only road to freedom lie
through the gates of death, those gates must be passed; for
freedom is indispensable.  Then, monsieur, I would resist as far
as my strength permitted; when that strength failed I should be
sure of a refuge.  Death would certainly screen me both from bad
laws and their consequences."
"Voluntary death, Frances?"
"No, monsieur.  I'd have courage to live out every throe of
anguish fate assigned me, and principle to contend for justice
and liberty to the last."
"I see you would have made no patient Grizzle.  And now,
supposing fate had merely assigned you the lot of an old maid,
what then?  How would you have liked celibacy?"
"Not much, certainly.  An old maid's life must doubtless be void
and vapid--her heart strained and empty. Had I been an old maid I
should have spent existence in efforts to fill the void and ease
the aching.  I should have probably failed, and died weary and
disappointed, despised and of no account, like other single
women.  But I'm not an old maid," she added quickly.  "I should
have been, though, but for my master.  I should never have suited
any man but Professor Crimsworth--no other gentleman, French,
English, or Belgian, would have thought me amiable or handsome;
and I doubt whether I should have cared for the approbation of
many others, if I could have obtained it.  Now, I have been
Professor Crimsworth's wife eight years, and what is he in my
eyes?  Is he honourable, beloved---?"  She stopped, her voice was
cut off, her eyes suddenly suffused.  She and I were standing
side by side; she threw her arms round me, and strained me to her
heart with passionate earnestness:  the energy of her whole being
glowed in her dark and then dilated eye, and crimsoned her
animated cheek; her look and movement were like inspiration; in
one there was such a flash, in the other such a power.  Half an
hour afterwards, when she had become calm, I asked where all that
wild vigour was gone which had transformed her ere-while and made
her glance so thrilling and ardent--her action so rapid and
strong.  She looked down, smiling softly and passively:--
"I cannot tell where it is gone, monsieur," said she, "but I know
that, whenever it is wanted, it will come back again."
Behold us now at the close of the ten years, and we have realized
an independency.  The rapidity with which we attained this end
had its origin in three reasons:-- Firstly, we worked so hard for
it; secondly, we had no incumbrances to delay success; thirdly,
as soon as we had capital to invest, two well-skilled
counsellors, one in Belgium, one in England, viz.  Vandenhuten
and Hunsden, gave us each a word of advice as to the sort of
investment to be chosen.  The suggestion made was judicious; and,
being promptly acted on, the result proved gainful--I need not
say how gainful; I communicated details to Messrs. Vandenhuten
and Hunsden; nobody else can be interested in hearing them.
Accounts being wound up, and our professional connection disposed
of, we both agreed that, as mammon was not our master, nor his
service that in which we desired to spend our lives; as our
desires were temperate, and our habits unostentatious, we had now
abundance to live on--abundance to leave our boy; and should
besides always have a balance on hand, which, properly managed by
right sympathy and unselfish activity, might help philanthropy in
her enterprises, and put solace into the hand of charity.
To England we now resolved to take wing; we arrived there safely;
Frances realized the dream of her lifetime. me spent a whole
summer and autumn in travelling from end to end of the British
islands, and afterwards passed a winter in London.  Then we
thought it high time to fix our residence.  My heart yearned
towards my native county of ----shire; and it is in ----shire I
now live; it is in the library of my own home I am now writing.
That home lies amid a sequestered and rather hilly region, thirty
miles removed from X----; a region whose verdure the smoke of
mills has not yet sullied, whose waters still run pure, whose
swells of moorland preserve in some ferny glens that lie between
them the very primal wildness of nature, her moss, her bracken,
her blue-bells, her scents of reed and heather, her free and
fresh breezes.  My house is a picturesque and not too spacious
dwelling, with low and long windows, a trellised and leaf-veiled
porch over the front door, just now, on this summer evening,
looking like an arch of roses and ivy.  The garden is chiefly
laid out in lawn, formed of the sod of the hills, with herbage
short and soft as moss, full of its own peculiar flowers, tiny
and starlike, imbedded in the minute embroidery of their fine
foliage.  At the bottom of the sloping garden there is a wicket,
which opens upon a lane as green as the lawn, very long, shady,
and little frequented; on the turf of this lane generally appear
the first daisies of spring--whence its name--Daisy Lane; serving
also as a distinction to the house.
It terminates (the lane I mean) in a valley full of wood; which
wood--chiefly oak and beech--spreads shadowy about the vicinage
of a very old mansion, one of the Elizabethan structures, much
larger, as well as more antique than Daisy Lane, the property and
residence of an individual familiar both to me and to the reader.
Yes, in Hunsden Wood--for so are those glades and that grey
building, with many gables and more chimneys, named--abides Yorke
Hunsden, still unmarried; never, I suppose, having yet found his
ideal, though I know at least a score of young ladies within a
circuit of forty miles, who would be willing to assist him in the
search.
The estate fell to him by the death of his father, five years
since; he has given up trade, after having made by it sufficient
to pay off some incumbrances by which the family heritage was
burdened.  I say he abides here, but I do not think he is
resident above five months out of the twelve; he wanders from
land to land, and spends some part of each winter in town:  he
frequently brings visitors with him when he comes to ---shire,
and these visitors are often foreigners; sometimes he has a
German metaphysician, sometimes a French savant; he had once a
dissatisfied and savage-looking Italian, who neither sang nor
played, and of whom Frances affirmed that he had "tout l'air d'un
conspirateur."
What English guests Hunsden invites, are all either men of
Birmingham or Manchester--hard men, seemingly knit up in one
thought, whose talk is of free trade.  The foreign visitors, too,
are politicians; they take a wider theme--European progress--the
spread of liberal sentiments over the Continent; on their mental
tablets, the names of Russia, Austria, and the Pope, are
inscribed in red ink.  I have heard some of them talk vigorous
sense--yea, I have been present at polyglot discussions in the
old, oak-lined dining-room at Hunsden Wood, where a singular
insight was given of the sentiments entertained by resolute minds
respecting old northern despotisms, and old southern
superstitions:  also, I have heard much twaddle, enounced chiefly
in French and Deutsch, but let that pass.  Hunsden himself
tolerated the drivelling theorists; with the practical men he
seemed leagued hand and heart.
When Hunsden is staying alone at the Wood (which seldom happens)
he generally finds his way two or three times a week to Daisy
Lane.  He has a philanthropic motive for coming to smoke his
cigar in our porch on summer evenings; he says he does it to kill
the earwigs amongst the roses, with which insects, but for his
benevolent fumigations, he intimates we should certainly be
overrun.  On wet days, too, we are almost sure to see him;
according to him, it gets on time to work me into lunacy by
treading on my mental corns, or to force from Mrs. Crimsworth
revelations of the dragon within her, by insulting the memory of
Hofer and Tell.
We also go frequently to Hunsden Wood, and both I and Frances
relish a visit there highly.  If there are other guests, their
characters are an interesting study; their conversation is
exciting and strange; the absence of all local narrowness both in
the host and his chosen society gives a metropolitan, almost a
cosmopolitan freedom and largeness to the talk.  Hunsden himself
is a polite man in his own house:  he has, when he chooses to
employ it, an inexhaustible power of entertaining guests; his
very mansion too is interesting, the rooms look storied, the
passages legendary, the low-ceiled chambers, with their long rows
of diamond-paned lattices, have an old-world, haunted air:  in
his travels he hall collected stores of articles of VERTU, which
are well and tastefully disposed in his panelled or tapestried
rooms:  I have seen there one or two pictures, and one or two
pieces of statuary which many an aristocratic connoisseur might
have envied.
When I and Frances have dined and spent an evening with Hunsden,
he often walks home with us.  His wood is large, and some of the
timber is old and of huge growth. There are winding ways in it
which, pursued through glade and brake, make the walk back to
Daisy Lane a somewhat long one.  Many a time, when we have had
the benefit of a full moon, and when the night has been mild and
balmy, when, moreover, a certain nightingale has been singing,
and a certain stream, hid in alders, has lent the song a soft
accompaniment, the remote church-bell of the one hamlet in a
district of ten miles, has tolled midnight ere the lord of the
wood left us at our porch.  Free-flowing was his talk at such
hours, and far more quiet and gentle than in the day-time and
before numbers.  He would then forget politics and discussion,
and would dwell on the past times of his house, on his family
history, on himself and his own feelings--subjects each and all
invested with a peculiar zest, for they were each and all unique.
One glorious night in June, after I had been taunting him about
his ideal bride and asking him when she would come and graft her
foreign beauty on the old Hunsden oak, he answered suddenly--
"You call her ideal; but see, here is her shadow; and there
cannot be a shadow without a substance."
He had led us from the depth of the "winding way" into a glade
from whence the beeches withdrew, leaving it open to the sky; an
unclouded moon poured her light into this glade, and Hunsden held
out under her beam an ivory miniature.
