
"He might have been cured--you should have tried--you should have
burnt the wound with a hot iron, or covered it with caustic.  You
gave no time; and now it is too late--he is dead!"
He sank fairly down on the senseless carcase; I waited patiently
a long while, till his grief had somewhat exhausted him; and then
I lifted him in my arms and carried him to his mother, sure that
she would comfort him best.  She had witnessed the whole scene
from a window; she would not come out for fear of increasing my
difficulties by her emotion, but she was ready now to receive
him. She took him to her kind heart, and on to her gentle lap;
consoled him but with her lips, her eyes, her soft embrace, for
some time; and then, when his sobs diminished, told him that
Yorke had felt no pain in dying, and that if he had been left to
expire naturally, his end would have been most horrible; above
all, she told him that I was not cruel (for that idea seemed to
give exquisite pain to poor Victor), that it was my affection for
Yorke and him which had made me act so, and that I was now almost
heart-broken to see him weep thus bitterly.
Victor would have been no true son of his father, had these
considerations, these reasons, breathed in so low, so sweet a
tone--married to caresses so benign, so tender--to looks so
inspired with pitying sympathy--produced no effect on him.  They
did produce an effect:  he grew calmer, rested his face on her
shoulder, and lay still in her arms.  Looking up, shortly, he
asked his mother to tell him over again what she had said about
Yorke having suffered no pain, and my not being cruel; the balmy
words being repeated, he again pillowed his cheek on her breast,
and was again tranquil.
Some hours after, he came to me in my library, asked if I forgave
him, and desired to be reconciled.  I drew the lad to my side,
and there I kept him a good while, and had much talk with him,
in the course of which he disclosed many points of feeling and
thought I appoved of in my son.  I found, it is true, few
elements of the "good fellow" or the "fine fellow" in him; scant
sparkles of the spirit which loves to flash over the wine cup, or
which kindles the passions to a destroying fire; but I saw in the
soil of his heart healthy and swelling germs of compassion,
affection, fidelity.  I discovered in the garden of his intellect
a rich growth of wholesome principles--reason, justice, moral
courage, promised, if not blighted, a fertile bearing. So I
bestowed on his large forehead, and on his cheek--still pale with
tears--a proud and contented kiss, and sent him away comforted.
Yet I saw him the next day laid on the mound under which Yorke
had been buried, his face covered with his hands; he was
melancholy for some weeks, and more than a year elapsed before he
would listen to any proposal of having another dog.
Victor learns fast.  He must soon go to Eton, where, I suspect,
his first year or two will be utter wretchedness:  to leave me,
his mother, and his home, will give his heart an agonized wrench;
then, the fagging will not suit him--but emulation, thirst after
knowledge, the glory of success, will stir and reward him in
time.  Meantime, I feel in myself a strong repugnance to fix the
hour which will uproot my sole olive branch, and transplant it
far from me; and, when I speak to Frances on the subject, I am
heard with a kind of patient pain, as though I alluded to some
fearful operation, at which her nature shudders, but from which
her fortitude will not permit her to recoil.  The step must,
however, be taken, and it shall be; for, though Frances will not
make a milksop of her son, she will accustom him to a style of
treatment, a forbearance, a congenial tenderness,  he will meet
with from none else.  She sees, as I also see, a something in
Victor's temper--a kind of electrical ardour and power--which
emits, now and then, ominous sparks; Hunsden calls it his spirit,
and says it should not be curbed.  I call it the leaven of the
offending Adam, and consider that it should be, if not WHIPPED
out of him, at least soundly disciplined; and that he will be
cheap of any amount of either bodily or mental suffering which
will ground him radically in the art of self-control. Frances
gives this something in her son's marked character no name; but
when it appears in the grinding of his teeth, in the glittering
of his eye, in the fierce revolt of feeling against
disappointment, mischance, sudden sorrow, or supposed injustice,
she folds him to her breast, or takes him to walk with her alone
in the wood; then she reasons with him like any philosopher, and
to reason Victor is ever accessible; then she looks at him with
eyes of love, and by love Victor can be infallibly subjugated;
but will reason or love be the weapons with which in future the
world will meet his violence?  Oh, no! for that flash in his
black eye--for that cloud on his bony brow--for that compression
of his statuesque lips, the lad will some day get blows instead
of blandishments--kicks instead of kisses; then for the fit of
mute fury which will sicken his body and madden his soul; then
for the ordeal of merited and salutary suffering, out of which he
will come (I trust) a wiser and a better man.
I see him now; he stands by Hunsden, who is seated on the lawn
under the beech; Hunsden's hand rests on the boy's collar, and he
is instilling God knows what principles into his ear.  Victor
looks well just now, for he listens with a sort of smiling
interest; he never looks so like his mother as when he smiles
--pity the sunshine breaks out so rarely!  Victor has a
preference for Hunsden, full as strong as I deem desirable, being
considerably more potent decided, and indiscriminating, than any
I ever entertained for that personage myself.  Frances, too,
regards it with a sort of unexpressed anxiety; while her son
leans on Hunsden's knee, or rests against his shoulder, she roves
with restless movement round, like a dove guarding its young from
a hovering hawk; she says she wishes Hunsden had children of his
own, for then he would better know the danger of inciting their
pride end indulging their foibles.
Frances approaches my library window; puts aside the honeysuckle
which half covers it, and tells me tea is ready; seeing that I
continue busy she enters the room, comes near me quietly, and
puts her hand on my shoulder.
"Monsieur est trop applique."
"I shall soon have done."
She draws a chair near, and sits down to wait till I have
finished; her presence is as pleasant to my mind as the perfume
of the fresh hay and spicy flowers, as the glow of the westering
sun, as the repose of the midsummer eve are to my senses.
But Hunsden comes; I hear his step, and there he is, bending
through the lattice, from which he has thrust away the woodbine
with unsparing hand, disturbing two bees and a butterfly.
"Crimsworth!  I say, Crimsworth! take that pen out of his hand,
mistress, and make him lift up his head.
"Well, Hunsden ?  I hear you--"
"I was at X---- yesterday! your brother Ned is getting richer
than Croesus by railway speculations; they call him in the Piece
Hall a stag of ten; and I have heard from Brown.  M. and Madame
Vandenhuten and Jean Baptiste talk of coming to see you next
month.  He mentions the Pelets too; he says their domestic
harmony is not the finest in the world, but in business they are
doing 'on ne peut mieux,' which circumstance he concludes will be
a sufficient consolation to both for any little crosses in the
affections.  Why don't you invite the Pelets to ----shire,
Crimsworth?  I should so like to see your first flame, Zoraide.
Mistress, don't be jealous, but he loved that lady to
distraction; I know it for a fact.  Brown says she weighs twelve
stones now; you see what you've lost, Mr. Professor.  Now,
Monsieur and Madame, if you don't come to tea, Victor and I will
begin without you."
"Papa, come!"
End of The Project Gutenberg Etext of The Professor, by Charlotte Bronte
