
A pause -- in which I began to steady the palsy of my nerves, and
to feel that the Rubicon was passed; and that the trial, no longer
to be shirked, must be firmly sustained.
"My dear children," pursued the black marble clergyman, with pathos,
"this is a sad, a melancholy occasion; for it becomes my duty to
warn you, that this girl, who might be one of God's own lambs, is
a little castaway:  not a member of the true flock, but evidently
an interloper and an alien.  You must be on your guard against
her; you must shun her example; if necessary, avoid her company,
exclude her from your sports, and shut her out from your converse.
Teachers, you must watch her:  keep your eyes on her movements,
weigh well her words, scrutinise her actions, punish her body to
save her soul:  if, indeed, such salvation be possible, for (my
tongue falters while I tell it) this girl, this child, the native
of a Christian land, worse than many a little heathen who says its
prayers to Brahma and kneels before Juggernaut -- this girl is --
a liar!"
Now came a pause of ten minutes, during which I, by this time in
perfect possession of my wits, observed all the female Brocklehursts
produce their pocket-handkerchiefs and apply them to their optics,
while the elderly lady swayed herself to and fro, and the two
younger ones whispered, "How shocking!"  Mr. Brocklehurst resumed.
"This I learned from her benefactress; from the pious and charitable
lady who adopted her in her orphan state, reared her as her own
daughter, and whose kindness, whose generosity the unhappy girl
repaid by an ingratitude so bad, so dreadful, that at last her
excellent patroness was obliged to separate her from her own young
ones, fearful lest her vicious example should contaminate their
purity:  she has sent her here to be healed, even as the Jews
of old sent their diseased to the troubled pool of Bethesda; and,
teachers, superintendent, I beg of you not to allow the waters to
stagnate round her."
With this sublime conclusion, Mr. Brocklehurst adjusted the top button
of his surtout, muttered something to his family, who rose, bowed
to Miss Temple, and then all the great people sailed in
state from the room.  Turning at the door, my judge said -
"Let her stand half-an-hour longer on that stool, and let no one
speak to her during the remainder of the day."
There was I, then, mounted aloft; I, who had said I could not bear
the shame of standing on my natural feet in the middle of the room,
was now exposed to general view on a pedestal of infamy.  What
my sensations were no language can describe; but just as they all
rose, stifling my breath and constricting my throat, a girl came
up and passed me:  in passing, she lifted her eyes.  What a strange
light inspired them!  What an extraordinary sensation that ray
sent through me!  How the new feeling bore me up!  It was as if a
martyr, a hero, had passed a slave or victim, and imparted strength
in the transit.  I mastered the rising hysteria, lifted up my head,
and took a firm stand on the stool.  Helen Burns asked some slight
question about her work of Miss Smith, was chidden for the triviality
of the inquiry, returned to her place, and smiled at me as she
again went by.  What a smile!  I remember it now, and I know that
it was the effluence of fine intellect, of true courage; it lit up
her marked lineaments, her thin face, her sunken grey eye, like a
reflection from the aspect of an angel.  Yet at that moment Helen
Burns wore on her arm "the untidy badge;" scarcely an hour ago I
had heard her condemned by Miss Scatcherd to a dinner of bread and
water on the morrow because she had blotted an exercise in copying
it out.  Such is the imperfect nature of man!  such spots are there
on the disc of the clearest planet; and eyes like Miss Scatcherd's
can only see those minute defects, and are blind to the full
brightness of the orb.
CHAPTER VIII
Ere the half-hour ended, five o'clock struck; school was dismissed,
and all were gone into the refectory to tea.  I now ventured to
descend:  it was deep dusk; I retired into a corner and sat down on
the floor.  The spell by which I had been so far supported began
to dissolve; reaction took place, and soon, so overwhelming was the
grief that seized me, I sank prostrate with my face to the ground.
Now I wept:  Helen Burns was not here; nothing sustained me; left
to myself I abandoned myself, and my tears watered the boards.  I
had meant to be so good, and to do so much at Lowood:  to make so
many friends, to earn respect and win affection.  Already I had
made visible progress:  that very morning I had reached the head
of my class; Miss Miller had praised me warmly; Miss Temple had
smiled approbation; she had promised to teach me drawing, and to
let me learn French, if I continued to make similar improvement two
months longer:  and then I was well received by my fellow-pupils;
treated as an equal by those of my own age, and not molested by
any; now, here I lay again crushed and trodden on; and could I ever
rise more?
"Never," I thought; and ardently I wished to die.  While sobbing
out this wish in broken accents, some one approached:  I started
up -- again Helen Burns was near me; the fading fires just showed
her coming up the long, vacant room; she brought my coffee and
bread.
"Come, eat something," she said; but I put both away from me,
feeling as if a drop or a crumb would have choked me in my present
condition.  Helen regarded me, probably with surprise:  I could not
now abate my agitation, though I tried hard; I continued to weep
aloud.  She sat down on the ground near me, embraced her knees
with her arms, and rested her head upon them; in that attitude
she remained silent as an Indian.  I was the first who spoke -
"Helen, why do you stay with a girl whom everybody believes to be
a liar?"
"Everybody, Jane?  Why, there are only eighty people who have heard
you called so, and the world contains hundreds of millions."
"But what have I to do with millions?  The eighty, I know, despise
me."
"Jane, you are mistaken:  probably not one in the school either
despises or dislikes you:  many, I am sure, pity you much."
"How can they pity me after what Mr. Brocklehurst has said?"
"Mr. Brocklehurst is not a god:  nor is he even a great and admired
man:  he is little liked here; he never took steps to make himself
liked.  Had he treated you as an especial favourite, you would
have found enemies, declared or covert, all around you; as it is,
the greater number would offer you sympathy if they dared.  Teachers
and pupils may look coldly on you for a day or two, but friendly
feelings are concealed in their hearts; and if you persevere in
doing well, these feelings will ere long appear so much the more
evidently for their temporary suppression.  Besides, Jane" -- she
paused.
"Well, Helen?"  said I, putting my hand into hers:  she
chafed my fingers gently to warm them, and went on -
"If all the world hated you, and believed you wicked, while your
own conscience approved you, and absolved you from guilt, you would
not be without friends."
"No; I know I should think well of myself; but that is not enough:
if others don't love me I would rather die than live -- I cannot
bear to be solitary and hated, Helen.  Look here; to gain some
real affection from you, or Miss Temple, or any other whom I truly
love, I would willingly submit to have the bone of my arm broken, or
to let a bull toss me, or to stand behind a kicking horse,
and let it dash its hoof at my chest -- "
"Hush, Jane!  you think too much of the love of human beings; you
are too impulsive, too vehement; the sovereign hand that created
your frame, and put life into it, has provided you with other
resources than your feeble self, or than creatures feeble as you.
Besides this earth, and besides the race of men, there is an invisible
world and a kingdom of spirits:  that world is round us, for it is
everywhere; and those spirits watch us, for they are commissioned
to guard us; and if we were dying in pain and shame, if scorn smote
us on all sides, and hatred crushed us, angels see our tortures,
recognise our innocence (if innocent we be:  as I know you are of
this charge which Mr. Brocklehurst has weakly and pompously repeated
at second-hand from Mrs. Reed; for I read a sincere nature in
your ardent eyes and on your clear front), and God waits only the
separation of spirit from flesh to crown us with a full reward.
Why, then, should we ever sink overwhelmed with distress, when life
is so soon over, and death is so certain an entrance to happiness
-- to glory?"
I was silent; Helen had calmed me; but in the tranquillity she
imparted there was an alloy of inexpressible sadness.  I felt the
impression of woe as she spoke, but I could not tell whence it
came; and when, having done speaking, she breathed a little fast
and coughed a short cough, I momentarily forgot my own sorrows to
yield to a vague concern for her.
Resting my head on Helen's shoulder, I put my arms round her waist;
she drew me to her, and we reposed in silence.  We had not sat long
thus, when another person came in.  Some heavy clouds, swept from
the sky by a rising wind, had left the moon bare; and her light,
streaming in through a window near, shone full both on us and on
the approaching figure, which we at once recognised as Miss Temple.
"I came on purpose to find you, Jane Eyre," said she; "I want you
in my room; and as Helen Burns is with you, she may come too."
We went; following the superintendent's guidance, we had to thread
some intricate passages, and mount a staircase before we reached
her apartment; it contained a good fire, and looked cheerful.  Miss
Temple told Helen Burns to be seated in a low arm-chair on one
side of the hearth, and herself taking another, she called me to
her side.
"Is it all over?"  she asked, looking down at my face.  "Have you
cried your grief away?"
"I am afraid I never shall do that."
"Why?"
"Because I have been wrongly accused; and you, ma'am, and everybody
else, will now think me wicked."
"We shall think you what you prove yourself to be, my child.
Continue to act as a good girl, and you will satisfy us."
"Shall I, Miss Temple?"
"You will," said she, passing her arm round me.  "And now tell me
who is the lady whom Mr. Brocklehurst called your benefactress?"
"Mrs. Reed, my uncle's wife.  My uncle is dead, and he left me to
her care."
"Did she not, then, adopt you of her own accord?"
"No, ma'am; she was sorry to have to do it:  but my uncle, as
I have often heard the servants say, got her to promise before he
died that she would always keep me."
"Well now, Jane, you know, or at least I will tell you, that when
a criminal is accused, he is always allowed to speak in his own
defence.  You have been charged with falsehood; defend yourself to
me as well as you can.  Say whatever your memory suggests is true;
but add nothing and exaggerate nothing."
I resolved, in the depth of my heart, that I would be most moderate
-- most correct; and, having reflected a few minutes in order
to arrange coherently what I had to say, I told her all the story
of my sad childhood.  Exhausted by emotion, my language was more
subdued than it generally was when it developed that sad theme; and
mindful of Helen's warnings against the indulgence of resentment,
I infused into the narrative far less of gall and wormwood than
ordinary.  Thus restrained and simplified, it sounded more credible:
I felt as I went on that Miss Temple fully believed me.
In the course of the tale I had mentioned Mr. Lloyd as having come
to see me after the fit:  for I never forgot the, to me, frightful
episode of the red-room:  in detailing which, my excitement was
sure, in some degree, to break bounds; for nothing could soften
in my recollection the spasm of agony which clutched my heart when
Mrs. Reed spurned my wild supplication for pardon, and locked me
a second time in the dark and haunted chamber.
I had finished:  Miss Temple regarded me a few minutes
in silence; she then said -
"I know something of Mr. Lloyd; I shall write to him; if his reply
agrees with your statement, you shall be publicly cleared from
every imputation; to me, Jane, you are clear now."
She kissed me, and still keeping me at her side (where I was well
contented to stand, for I derived a child's pleasure from the
contemplation of her face, her dress, her one or two ornaments, her
white forehead, her clustered and shining curls, and beaming dark
eyes), she proceeded to address Helen Burns.
"How are you to-night, Helen?  Have you coughed much to-day?"
"Not quite so much, I think, ma'am."
"And the pain in your chest?"
"It is a little better."
Miss Temple got up, took her hand and examined her pulse; then
she returned to her own seat:  as she resumed it, I heard her sigh
low.  She was pensive a few minutes, then rousing herself,
she said cheerfully -
"But you two are my visitors to-night; I must treat you as such."
She rang her bell.
