
"May I go up and speak to her?"
"Oh no, child!  It is not likely; and now it is time for you to come
in; you'll catch the fever if you stop out when the dew is falling."
The nurse closed the front door; I went in by the side entrance which
led to the schoolroom:  I was just in time; it was nine o'clock,
and Miss Miller was calling the pupils to go to bed.
It might be two hours later, probably near eleven, when I -- not
having been able to fall asleep, and deeming, from the perfect
silence of the dormitory, that my companions were all wrapt in
profound repose -- rose softly, put on my frock over my night-dress,
and, without shoes, crept from the apartment, and set off in quest
of Miss Temple's room.  It was quite at the other end of the house;
but I knew my way; and the light of the unclouded summer moon,
entering here and there at passage windows, enabled me to find it
without difficulty.  An odour of camphor and burnt vinegar warned
me when I came near the fever room:  and I passed its door quickly,
fearful lest the nurse who sat up all night should hear me.  I
dreaded being discovered and sent back; for I MUST see Helen, --
I must embrace her before she died, -- I must give her one last
kiss, exchange with her one last word.
Having descended a staircase, traversed a portion of the house
below, and succeeded in opening and shutting, without noise, two
doors, I reached another flight of steps; these I mounted, and then
just opposite to me was Miss Temple's room.  A light shone through
the keyhole and from under the door; a profound stillness pervaded
the vicinity.  Coming near, I found the door slightly ajar;
probably to admit some fresh air into the close abode of sickness.
Indisposed to hesitate, and full of impatient impulses -- soul and
senses quivering with keen throes -- I put it back and looked in.
My eye sought Helen, and feared to find death.
Close by Miss Temple's bed, and half covered with its white curtains,
there stood a little crib.  I saw the outline of a form under the
clothes, but the face was hid by the hangings:  the nurse I had
spoken to in the garden sat in an easy-chair asleep; an unsnuffed
candle burnt dimly on the table.  Miss Temple was not to be seen:
I knew afterwards that she had been called to a delirious patient
in the fever-room.  I advanced; then paused by the crib side:  my
hand was on the curtain, but I preferred speaking before I withdrew
it.  I still recoiled at the dread of seeing a corpse.
"Helen!"  I whispered softly, "are you awake?"
She stirred herself, put back the curtain, and I saw her face, pale,
wasted, but quite composed:  she looked so little changed that my
fear was instantly dissipated.
"Can it be you, Jane?"  she asked, in her own gentle voice.
"Oh!"  I thought, "she is not going to die; they are mistaken:  she
could not speak and look so calmly if she were."
I got on to her crib and kissed her:  her forehead was cold, and
her cheek both cold and thin, and so were her hand and wrist; but
she smiled as of old.
"Why are you come here, Jane?  It is past eleven o'clock:  I heard
it strike some minutes since."
"I came to see you, Helen:  I heard you were very ill, and I could
not sleep till I had spoken to you."
"You came to bid me good-bye, then:  you are just in time probably."
"Are you going somewhere, Helen?  Are you going home?"
"Yes; to my long home -- my last home."
"No, no, Helen!"  I stopped, distressed.  While I tried to devour
my tears, a fit of coughing seized Helen; it did not, however, wake
the nurse; when it was over, she lay some minutes exhausted;
then she whispered -
"Jane, your little feet are bare; lie down and cover yourself with
my quilt."
I did so:  she put her arm over me, and I nestled close
to her.  After a long silence, she resumed, still whispering -
"I am very happy, Jane; and when you hear that I am dead, you must
be sure and not grieve:  there is nothing to grieve about.  We
all must die one day, and the illness which is removing me is not
painful; it is gentle and gradual:  my mind is at rest.  I leave
no one to regret me much:  I have only a father; and he is lately
married, and will not miss me.  By dying young, I shall escape
great sufferings.  I had not qualities or talents to make my way
very well in the world:  I should have been continually at fault."
"But where are you going to, Helen?  Can you see?  Do you know?"
"I believe; I have faith:  I am going to God."
"Where is God?  What is God?"
"My Maker and yours, who will never destroy what He created.  I
rely implicitly on His power, and confide wholly in His goodness:
I count the hours till that eventful one arrives which shall restore
me to Him, reveal Him to me."
"You are sure, then, Helen, that there is such a place as heaven,
and that our souls can get to it when we die?"
"I am sure there is a future state; I believe God is good; I can
resign my immortal part to Him without any misgiving.  God is my
father; God is my friend:  I love Him; I believe He loves me."
"And shall I see you again, Helen, when I die?"
"You will come to the same region of happiness:  be received by
the same mighty, universal Parent, no doubt, dear Jane."
Again I questioned, but this time only in thought.  "Where is
that region?  Does it exist?"  And I clasped my arms closer round
Helen; she seemed dearer to me than ever; I felt as if I could
not let her go; I lay with my face hidden on her neck.  Presently
she said, in the sweetest tone -
"How comfortable I am!  That last fit of coughing has tired me a
little; I feel as if I could sleep:  but don't leave me, Jane; I
like to have you near me."
"I'll stay with you, DEAR Helen:  no one shall take me away."
"Are you warm, darling?"
"Yes."
"Good-night, Jane."
"Good-night, Helen."
She kissed me, and I her, and we both soon slumbered.
When I awoke it was day:  an unusual movement roused me; I looked
up; I was in somebody's arms; the nurse held me; she was carrying
me through the passage back to the dormitory.  I was not reprimanded
for leaving my bed; people had something else to think about; no
explanation was afforded then to my many questions; but a day or
two afterwards I learned that Miss Temple, on returning to her own
room at dawn, had found me laid in the little crib; my face against
Helen Burns's shoulder, my arms round her neck.  I was asleep, and
Helen was -- dead.
Her grave is in Brocklebridge churchyard:  for fifteen years after
her death it was only covered by a grassy mound; but now a grey
marble tablet marks the spot, inscribed with her name, and the word
"Resurgam."
CHAPTER X
Hitherto I have recorded in detail the events of my insignificant
existence:  to the first ten years of my life I have given almost
as many chapters.  But this is not to be a regular autobiography.
I am only bound to invoke Memory where I know her responses will
possess some degree of interest; therefore I now pass a space of
eight years almost in silence:  a few lines only are necessary to
keep up the links of connection.
When the typhus fever had fulfilled its mission of devastation
at Lowood, it gradually disappeared from thence; but not till its
virulence and the number of its victims had drawn public attention
on the school.  Inquiry was made into the origin of the scourge, and
by degrees various facts came out which excited public indignation
in a high degree.  The unhealthy nature of the site; the quantity
and quality of the children's food; the brackish, fetid water used
in its preparation; the pupils' wretched clothing and accommodations
-- all these things were discovered, and the discovery produced
a result mortifying to Mr. Brocklehurst, but beneficial to the
institution.
Several wealthy and benevolent individuals in the county subscribed
largely for the erection of a more convenient building in a better
situation; new regulations were made; improvements in diet and
clothing introduced; the funds of the school were intrusted to the
management of a committee.  Mr. Brocklehurst, who, from his wealth
and family connections, could not be overlooked, still retained the
post of treasurer; but he was aided in the discharge of his duties
by gentlemen of rather more enlarged and sympathising minds:  his
office of inspector, too, was shared by those who knew how to
combine reason with strictness, comfort with economy, compassion
with uprightness.  The school, thus improved, became in time a truly
useful and noble institution.  I remained an inmate of its walls,
after its regeneration, for eight years:  six as pupil, and two as
teacher; and in both capacities I bear my testimony to its value
and importance.
During these eight years my life was uniform:  but not unhappy,
because it was not inactive.  I had the means of an excellent
education placed within my reach; a fondness for some of my studies,
and a desire to excel in all, together with a great delight in
pleasing my teachers, especially such as I loved, urged me on:  I
availed myself fully of the advantages offered me.  In time I rose
to be the first girl of the first class; then I was invested with
the office of teacher; which I discharged with zeal for two years:
but at the end of that time I altered.
Miss Temple, through all changes, had thus far continued superintendent
of the seminary:  to her instruction I owed the best part of
my acquirements; her friendship and society had been my continual
solace; she had stood me in the stead of mother, governess, and,
latterly, companion.  At this period she married, removed with
her husband (a clergyman, an excellent man, almost worthy of such
a wife) to a distant county, and consequently was lost to me.
From the day she left I was no longer the same:  with her was gone
every settled feeling, every association that had made Lowood in
some degree a home to me.  I had imbibed from her something of her
nature and much of her habits:  more harmonious thoughts:  what
seemed better regulated feelings had become the inmates of my
mind.  I had given in allegiance to duty and order; I was quiet;
I believed I was content:  to the eyes of others, usually even to
my own, I appeared a disciplined and subdued character.
But destiny, in the shape of the Rev.  Mr. Nasmyth, came between
me and Miss Temple:  I saw her in her travelling dress step into
a post-chaise, shortly after the marriage ceremony; I watched
the chaise mount the hill and disappear beyond its brow; and then
retired to my own room, and there spent in solitude the greatest
part of the half-holiday granted in honour of the occasion.
I walked about the chamber most of the time.  I imagined myself
only to be regretting my loss, and thinking how to repair it; but
when my reflections were concluded, and I looked up and found that
the afternoon was gone, and evening far advanced, another discovery
dawned on me, namely, that in the interval I had undergone a
transforming process; that my mind had put off all it had borrowed
of Miss Temple -- or rather that she had taken with her the serene
atmosphere I had been breathing in her vicinity -- and that now I
was left in my natural element, and beginning to feel the stirring
of old emotions.  It did not seem as if a prop were withdrawn,
but rather as if a motive were gone:  it was not the power to be
tranquil which had failed me, but the reason for tranquillity was
no more.  My world had for some years been in Lowood:  my experience
had been of its rules and systems; now I remembered that the real
world was wide, and that a varied field of hopes and fears, of
sensations and excitements, awaited those who had courage to go
forth into its expanse, to seek real knowledge of life amidst its
perils.
