
"And Mrs. Reed?"
"Missis looks stout and well enough in the face, but I think she's
not quite easy in her mind:  Mr. John's conduct does not please
her- -he spends a deal of money."
"Did she send you here, Bessie?"
"No, indeed:  but I have long wanted to see you, and when I heard
that there had been a letter from you, and that you were going to
another part of the country, I thought I'd just set off, and get
a look at you before you were quite out of my reach."
"I am afraid you are disappointed in me, Bessie."  I said this
laughing:  I perceived that Bessie's glance, though it expressed
regard, did in no shape denote admiration.
"No, Miss Jane, not exactly:  you are genteel enough; you look like
a lady, and it is as much as ever I expected of you:  you were no
beauty as a child."
I smiled at Bessie's frank answer:  I felt that it was correct, but
I confess I was not quite indifferent to its import:  at eighteen
most people wish to please, and the conviction that they have not an
exterior likely to second that desire brings anything but gratification.
"I dare say you are clever, though," continued Bessie, by way of
solace.  "What can you do?  Can you play on the piano?"
"A little."
There was one in the room; Bessie went and opened it, and then asked
me to sit down and give her a tune:  I played a waltz or two, and
she was charmed.
"The Miss Reeds could not play as well!"  said she exultingly.  "I
always said you would surpass them in learning:  and can you draw?"
"That is one of my paintings over the chimney-piece."  It was a
landscape in water colours, of which I had made a present to the
superintendent, in acknowledgment of her obliging mediation with
the committee on my behalf, and which she had framed and glazed.
"Well, that is beautiful, Miss Jane!  It is as fine a picture as
any Miss Reed's drawing-master could paint, let alone the young
ladies themselves, who could not come near it:  and have you learnt
French?"
"Yes, Bessie, I can both read it and speak it."
"And you can work on muslin and canvas?"
"I can."
"Oh, you are quite a lady, Miss Jane!  I knew you would be:  you
will get on whether your relations notice you or not.  There was
something I wanted to ask you.  Have you ever heard anything from
your father's kinsfolk, the Eyres?"
"Never in my life."
"Well, you know Missis always said they were poor and quite
despicable:  and they may be poor; but I believe they are as much
gentry as the Reeds are; for one day, nearly seven years ago, a
Mr. Eyre came to Gateshead and wanted to see you; Missis said you
were it school fifty miles off; he seemed so much disappointed, for
he could not stay:  he was going on a voyage to a foreign country,
and the ship was to sail from London in a day or two.  He looked
quite a gentleman, and I believe he was your father's brother."
"What foreign country was he going to, Bessie?"
"An island thousands of miles off, where they make wine
-- the butler did tell me -- "
"Madeira?"  I suggested.
"Yes, that is it -- that is the very word."
"So he went?"
"Yes; he did not stay many minutes in the house:  Missis was very
high with him; she called him afterwards a 'sneaking tradesman.'
My Robert believes he was a wine-merchant."
"Very likely," I returned; "or perhaps clerk or agent to a
wine-merchant."
Bessie and I conversed about old times an hour longer, and then
she was obliged to leave me:  I saw her again for a few minutes
the next morning at Lowton, while I was waiting for the coach.  We
parted finally at the door of the Brocklehurst Arms there:  each
went her separate way; she set off for the brow of Lowood Fell
to meet the conveyance which was to take her back to Gateshead, I
mounted the vehicle which was to bear me to new duties and a new
life in the unknown environs of Millcote.
CHAPTER XI
A new chapter in a novel is something like a new scene in a play;
and when I draw up the curtain this time, reader, you must fancy you
see a room in the George Inn at Millcote, with such large figured
papering on the walls as inn rooms have; such a carpet, such
furniture, such ornaments on the mantelpiece, such prints, including
a portrait of George the Third, and another of the Prince of Wales,
and a representation of the death of Wolfe.  All this is visible
to you by the light of an oil lamp hanging from the ceiling, and
by that of an excellent fire, near which I sit in my cloak and
bonnet; my muff and umbrella lie on the table, and I am warming
away the numbness and chill contracted by sixteen hours' exposure
to the rawness of an October day:  I left Lowton at four o'clock
a.m., and the Millcote town clock is now just striking eight.
Reader, though I look comfortably accommodated, I am not very tranquil
in my mind.  I thought when the coach stopped here there would be
some one to meet me; I looked anxiously round as I descended the
wooden steps the "boots" placed for my convenience, expecting to
hear my name pronounced, and to see some description of carriage
waiting to convey me to Thornfield.  Nothing of the sort was
visible; and when I asked a waiter if any one had been to inquire
after a Miss Eyre, I was answered in the negative:  so I had no
resource but to request to be shown into a private room:  and here
I am waiting, while all sorts of doubts and fears are troubling my
thoughts.
It is a very strange sensation to inexperienced youth to feel
itself quite alone in the world, cut adrift from every connection,
uncertain whether the port to which it is bound can be reached,
and prevented by many impediments from returning to that it has
quitted.  The charm of adventure sweetens that sensation, the glow
of pride warms it; but then the throb of fear disturbs it; and fear
with me became predominant when half-an-hour elapsed and still I
was alone.  I bethought myself to ring the bell.
"Is there a place in this neighbourhood called Thornfield?"  I
asked of the waiter who answered the summons.
"Thornfield?  I don't know, ma'am; I'll inquire at the
bar."  He vanished, but reappeared instantly -
"Is your name Eyre, Miss?"
"Yes."
"Person here waiting for you."
I jumped up, took my muff and umbrella, and hastened into the inn-
passage:  a man was standing by the open door, and in the lamp-lit
street I dimly saw a one-horse conveyance.
"This will be your luggage, I suppose?"  said the man rather abruptly
when he saw me, pointing to my trunk in the passage.
"Yes."  He hoisted it on to the vehicle, which was a sort of car,
and then I got in; before he shut me up, I asked him how far it
was to Thornfield.
"A matter of six miles."
"How long shall we be before we get there?"
"Happen an hour and a half."
He fastened the car door, climbed to his own seat outside, and
we set off.  Our progress was leisurely, and gave me ample time
to reflect; I was content to be at length so near the end of my
journey; and as I leaned back in the comfortable though not elegant
conveyance, I meditated much at my ease.
"I suppose," thought I, "judging from the plainness of the servant
and carriage, Mrs. Fairfax is not a very dashing person:  so much
the better; I never lived amongst fine people but once, and I was
very miserable with them.  I wonder if she lives alone except this
little girl; if so, and if she is in any degree amiable, I shall
surely be able to get on with her; I will do my best; it is a pity
that doing one's best does not always answer.  At Lowood, indeed,
I took that resolution, kept it, and succeeded in pleasing; but
with Mrs. Reed, I remember my best was always spurned with scorn.
I pray God Mrs. Fairfax may not turn out a second Mrs. Reed; but
if she does, I am not bound to stay with her!  let the worst come
to the worst, I can advertise again.  How far are we on our road
now, I wonder?"
I let down the window and looked out; Millcote was behind us; judging
by the number of its lights, it seemed a place of considerable
magnitude, much larger than Lowton.  We were now, as far as I could
see, on a sort of common; but there were houses scattered all over
the district; I felt we were in a different region to Lowood, more
populous, less picturesque; more stirring, less romantic.
The roads were heavy, the night misty; my conductor let his horse
walk all the way, and the hour and a half extended, I verily
believe, to two hours; at last he turned in his seat and said -
"You're noan so far fro' Thornfield now."
