
"Can you understand her when she runs on so fast?"  asked Mrs.
Fairfax.
I understood her very well, for I had been accustomed to the fluent
tongue of Madame Pierrot.
"I wish," continued the good lady, "you would ask her a question
or two about her parents:  I wonder if she remembers them?"
"Adele," I inquired, "with whom did you live when you were in that
pretty clean town you spoke of?"
"I lived long ago with mama; but she is gone to the Holy Virgin.
Mama used to teach me to dance and sing, and to say verses.  A
great many gentlemen and ladies came to see mama, and I used to
dance before them, or to sit on their knees and sing to them:  I
liked it.  Shall I let you hear me sing now?"
She had finished her breakfast, so I permitted her to give a specimen
of her accomplishments.  Descending from her chair, she came and
placed herself on my knee; then, folding her little hands demurely
before her, shaking back her curls and lifting her eyes to the
ceiling, she commenced singing a song from some opera.  It was the
strain of a forsaken lady, who, after bewailing the perfidy of her
lover, calls pride to her aid; desires her attendant to deck her
in her brightest jewels and richest robes, and resolves to meet the
false one that night at a ball, and prove to him, by the gaiety of
her demeanour, how little his desertion has affected her.
The subject seemed strangely chosen for an infant singer; but
I suppose the point of the exhibition lay in hearing the notes of
love and jealousy warbled with the lisp of childhood; and in very
bad taste that point was:  at least I thought so.
Adele sang the canzonette tunefully enough, and with the naivete
of her age.  This achieved, she jumped from my knee and said, "Now,
Mademoiselle, I will repeat you some poetry."
Assuming an attitude, she began, "La Ligue des Rats:  fable de La
Fontaine."  She then declaimed the little piece with an attention
to punctuation and emphasis, a flexibility of voice and an
appropriateness of gesture, very unusual indeed at her age, and
which proved she had been carefully trained.
"Was it your mama who taught you that piece?"  I asked.
"Yes, and she just used to say it in this way:  'Qu' avez vous
donc?  lui dit un de ces rats; parlez!'  She made me lift my hand
-- so -- to remind me to raise my voice at the question.  Now shall
I dance for you?"
"No, that will do:  but after your mama went to the Holy Virgin,
as you say, with whom did you live then?"
"With Madame Frederic and her husband:  she took care of me, but
she is nothing related to me.  I think she is poor, for she had
not so fine a house as mama.  I was not long there.  Mr. Rochester
asked me if I would like to go and live with him in England, and I
said yes; for I knew Mr. Rochester before I knew Madame Frederic,
and he was always kind to me and gave me pretty dresses and toys:
but you see he has not kept his word, for he has brought me to
England, and now he is gone back again himself, and I never see
him."
After breakfast, Adele and I withdrew to the library, which room,
it appears, Mr. Rochester had directed should be used as the
schoolroom.  Most of the books were locked up behind glass doors;
but there was one bookcase left open containing everything that
could be needed in the way of elementary works, and several volumes
of light literature, poetry, biography, travels, a few romances,
&c.  I suppose he had considered that these were all the governess
would require for her private perusal; and, indeed, they contented
me amply for the present; compared with the scanty pickings I had
now and then been able to glean at Lowood, they seemed to offer an
abundant harvest of entertainment and information.  In this room,
too, there was a cabinet piano, quite new and of superior tone;
also an easel for painting and a pair of globes.
I found my pupil sufficiently docile, though disinclined to apply:
she had not been used to regular occupation of any kind.  I felt
it would be injudicious to confine her too much at first; so, when
I had talked to her a great deal, and got her to learn a little,
and when the morning had advanced to noon, I allowed her to return
to her nurse.  I then proposed to occupy myself till dinner-time
in drawing some little sketches for her use.
As I was going upstairs to fetch my portfolio and pencils, Mrs.
Fairfax called to me:  "Your morning school-hours are over now, I
suppose," said she.  She was in a room the folding-doors of which
stood open:  I went in when she addressed me.  It was a large,
stately apartment, with purple chairs and curtains, a Turkey carpet,
walnut-panelled walls, one vast window rich in slanted glass, and
a lofty ceiling, nobly moulded.  Mrs. Fairfax was dusting some
vases of fine purple spar, which stood on a sideboard.
"What a beautiful room!"  I exclaimed, as I looked round; for I
had never before seen any half so imposing.
"Yes; this is the dining-room.  I have just opened the window, to
let in a little air and sunshine; for everything gets so damp in
apartments that are seldom inhabited; the drawing-room yonder feels
like a vault."
She pointed to a wide arch corresponding to the window, and hung like
it with a Tyrian-dyed curtain, now looped up.  Mounting to it by
two broad steps, and looking through, I thought I caught a glimpse
of a fairy place, so bright to my novice-eyes appeared the view
beyond.  Yet it was merely a very pretty drawing-room, and within
it a boudoir, both spread with white carpets, on which seemed laid
brilliant garlands of flowers; both ceiled with snowy mouldings of
white grapes and vine-leaves, beneath which glowed in rich contrast
crimson couches and ottomans; while the ornaments on the pale
Parisian mantelpiece were of sparkling Bohemian glass, ruby red;
and between the windows large mirrors repeated the general blending
of snow and fire.
"In what order you keep these rooms, Mrs. Fairfax!"  said I. "No
dust, no canvas coverings:  except that the air feels chilly, one
would think they were inhabited daily."
"Why, Miss Eyre, though Mr. Rochester's visits here are rare, they
are always sudden and unexpected; and as I observed that it put
him out to find everything swathed up, and to have a bustle of
arrangement on his arrival, I thought it best to keep the rooms in
readiness."
"Is Mr. Rochester an exacting, fastidious sort of man?"
"Not particularly so; but he has a gentleman's tastes and habits,
and he expects to have things managed in conformity to them."
"Do you like him?  Is he generally liked?"
"Oh, yes; the family have always been respected here.  Almost all
the land in this neighbourhood, as far as you can see, has belonged
to the Rochesters time out of mind."
"Well, but, leaving his land out of the question, do you like him?
Is he liked for himself?"
"I have no cause to do otherwise than like him; and I believe he
is considered a just and liberal landlord by his tenants:  but he
has never lived much amongst them."
"But has he no peculiarities?  What, in short, is his character?"
"Oh!  his character is unimpeachable, I suppose.  He is rather
peculiar, perhaps:  he has travelled a great deal, and seen a great
deal of the world, I should think.  I dare say he is clever, but
I never had much conversation with him."
"In what way is he peculiar?"
"I don't know -- it is not easy to describe -- nothing striking,
but you feel it when he speaks to you; you cannot be always sure
whether he is in jest or earnest, whether he is pleased or the
contrary; you don't thoroughly understand him, in short -- at least,
I don't:  but it is of no consequence, he is a very good master."
This was all the account I got from Mrs. Fairfax of her employer
and mine.  There are people who seem to have no notion of sketching
a character, or observing and describing salient points, either in
persons or things:  the good lady evidently belonged to this class;
my queries puzzled, but did not draw her out.  Mr. Rochester was
Mr. Rochester in her eyes; a gentleman, a landed proprietor --
nothing more:  she inquired and searched no further, and evidently
wondered at my wish to gain a more definite notion of his identity.
When we left the dining-room, she proposed to show me over the rest
of the house; and I followed her upstairs and downstairs, admiring
as I went; for all was well arranged and handsome.  The large front
chambers I thought especially grand:  and some of the third-storey
rooms, though dark and low, were interesting from their air of
antiquity.  The furniture once appropriated to the lower apartments
had from time to time been removed here, as fashions changed:
and the imperfect light entering by their narrow casement showed
bedsteads of a hundred years old; chests in oak or walnut, looking,
with their strange carvings of palm branches and cherubs' heads,
like types of the Hebrew ark; rows of venerable chairs, high-backed
and narrow; stools still more antiquated, on whose cushioned tops
were yet apparent traces of half-effaced embroideries, wrought by
fingers that for two generations had been coffin-dust.  All these
relics gave to the third storey of Thornfield Hall the aspect of a
home of the past:  a shrine of memory.  I liked the hush, the gloom,
the quaintness of these retreats in the day; but I by no means
coveted a night's repose on one of those wide and heavy beds:  shut
in, some of them, with doors of oak; shaded, others, with wrought
old English hangings crusted with thick work, portraying effigies
of strange flowers, and stranger birds, and strangest human beings,
-- all which would have looked strange, indeed, by the pallid gleam
of moonlight.
"Do the servants sleep in these rooms?"  I asked.
"No; they occupy a range of smaller apartments to the back; no
one ever sleeps here:  one would almost say that, if there were a
ghost at Thornfield Hall, this would be its haunt."
"So I think:  you have no ghost, then?"
"None that I ever heard of," returned Mrs. Fairfax, smiling.
"Nor any traditions of one?  no legends or ghost stories?"
"I believe not.  And yet it is said the Rochesters have been rather
a violent than a quiet race in their time:  perhaps, though, that
is the reason they rest tranquilly in their graves now."
"Yes -- 'after life's fitful fever they sleep well,'" I muttered.
"Where are you going now, Mrs. Fairfax?"  for she was moving away.
"On to the leads; will you come and see the view from thence?"  I
followed still, up a very narrow staircase to the attics, and thence
by a ladder and through a trap-door to the roof of the hall.  I
was now on a level with the crow colony, and could see into their
nests.  Leaning over the battlements and looking far down, I
surveyed the grounds laid out like a map:  the bright and velvet
lawn closely girdling the grey base of the mansion; the field,
wide as a park, dotted with its ancient timber; the wood, dun and
sere, divided by a path visibly overgrown, greener with moss than
the trees were with foliage; the church at the gates, the road, the
tranquil hills, all reposing in the autumn day's sun; the horizon
bounded by a propitious sky, azure, marbled with pearly white.  No
feature in the scene was extraordinary, but all was pleasing.  When
I turned from it and repassed the trap-door, I could scarcely see
my way down the ladder; the attic seemed black as a vault compared
with that arch of blue air to which I had been looking up, and to
that sunlit scene of grove, pasture, and green hill, of which the
hall was the centre, and over which I had been gazing with delight.
Mrs. Fairfax stayed behind a moment to fasten the trap-door; I, by
drift of groping, found the outlet from the attic, and proceeded
to descend the narrow garret staircase.  I lingered in the long
passage to which this led, separating the front and back rooms of
the third storey:  narrow, low, and dim, with only one little window
at the far end, and looking, with its two rows of small black doors
all shut, like a corridor in some Bluebeard's castle.
While I paced softly on, the last sound I expected to hear in so
still a region, a laugh, struck my ear.  It was a curious laugh;
distinct, formal, mirthless.  I stopped:  the sound ceased, only
for an instant; it began again, louder:  for at first, though
distinct, it was very low.  It passed off in a clamorous peal that
seemed to wake an echo in every lonely chamber; though it originated
but in one, and I could have pointed out the door whence the accents
issued.
"Mrs. Fairfax!"  I called out:  for I now heard her descending the
great stairs.  "Did you hear that loud laugh?  Who is it?"
"Some of the servants, very likely," she answered:  "perhaps Grace
Poole."
"Did you hear it?"  I again inquired.
"Yes, plainly:  I often hear her:  she sews in one of these rooms.
Sometimes Leah is with her; they are frequently noisy together."
The laugh was repeated in its low, syllabic tone, and terminated
in an odd murmur.
"Grace!"  exclaimed Mrs. Fairfax.
I really did not expect any Grace to answer; for the laugh was
as tragic, as preternatural a laugh as any I ever heard; and, but
that it was high noon, and that no circumstance of ghostliness
accompanied the curious cachinnation; but that neither scene nor
season favoured fear, I should have been superstitiously afraid.
However, the event showed me I was a fool for entertaining a sense
even of surprise.
