
"I cannot commission you to fetch help," he said; "but you may help
me a little yourself, if you will be so kind."
"Yes, sir."
"You have not an umbrella that I can use as a stick?"
"No."
"Try to get hold of my horse's bridle and lead him to me:  you are
not afraid?"
I should have been afraid to touch a horse when alone, but when
told to do it, I was disposed to obey.  I put down my muff on the
stile, and went up to the tall steed; I endeavoured to catch the
bridle, but it was a spirited thing, and would not let me come
near its head; I made effort on effort, though in vain:  meantime,
I was mortally afraid of its trampling fore-feet.  The traveller
waited and watched for some time, and at last he laughed.
"I see," he said, "the mountain will never be brought to Mahomet,
so all you can do is to aid Mahomet to go to the mountain; I must
beg of you to come here."
I came.  "Excuse me," he continued:  "necessity compels me to make
you useful."  He laid a heavy hand on my shoulder, and leaning on
me with some stress, limped to his horse.  Having once caught the
bridle, he mastered it directly and sprang to his saddle; grimacing
grimly as he made the effort, for it wrenched his sprain.
"Now," said he, releasing his under lip from a hard bite, "just
hand me my whip; it lies there under the hedge."
I sought it and found it.
"Thank you; now make haste with the letter to Hay, and return as
fast as you can."
A touch of a spurred heel made his horse first start and rear, and
then bound away; the dog rushed in his traces; all three vanished,
"Like heath that, in the wilderness, The wild wind whirls away."
I took up my muff and walked on.  The incident had occurred and
was gone for me:  it WAS an incident of no moment, no romance,
no interest in a sense; yet it marked with change one single hour
of a monotonous life.  My help had been needed and claimed; I had
given it:  I was pleased to have done something; trivial, transitory
though the deed was, it was yet an active thing, and I was weary
of an existence all passive.  The new face, too, was like a new
picture introduced to the gallery of memory; and it was dissimilar
to all the others hanging there:  firstly, because it was masculine;
and, secondly, because it was dark, strong, and stern.  I had it
still before me when I entered Hay, and slipped the letter into
the post- office; I saw it as I walked fast down-hill all the way
home.  When I came to the stile, I stopped a minute, looked round
and listened, with an idea that a horse's hoofs might ring on the
causeway again, and that a rider in a cloak, and a Gytrash-like
Newfoundland dog, might be again apparent:  I saw only the hedge
and a pollard willow before me, rising up still and straight to
meet the moonbeams; I heard only the faintest waft of wind roaming
fitful among the trees round Thornfield, a mile distant; and when
I glanced down in the direction of the murmur, my eye, traversing
the hall-front, caught a light kindling in a window:  it reminded
me that I was late, and I hurried on.
I did not like re-entering Thornfield.  To pass its threshold was
to return to stagnation; to cross the silent hall, to ascend the
darksome staircase, to seek my own lonely little room, and then to
meet tranquil Mrs. Fairfax, and spend the long winter evening with
her, and her only, was to quell wholly the faint excitement wakened
by my walk, -- to slip again over my faculties the viewless fetters
of an uniform and too still existence; of an existence whose
very privileges of security and ease I was becoming incapable of
appreciating.  What good it would have done me at that time to have
been tossed in the storms of an uncertain struggling life, and to
have been taught by rough and bitter experience to long for the
calm amidst which I now repined!  Yes, just as much good as it
would do a man tired of sitting still in a "too easy chair" to take
a long walk:  and just as natural was the wish to stir, under my
circumstances, as it would be under his.
I lingered at the gates; I lingered on the lawn; I paced backwards
and forwards on the pavement; the shutters of the glass door were
closed; I could not see into the interior; and both my eyes and
spirit seemed drawn from the gloomy house -- from the grey-hollow
filled with rayless cells, as it appeared to me -- to that sky
expanded before me, -- a blue sea absolved from taint of cloud;
the moon ascending it in solemn march; her orb seeming to look up
as she left the hill-tops, from behind which she had come, far and
farther below her, and aspired to the zenith, midnight dark in its
fathomless depth and measureless distance; and for those trembling
stars that followed her course; they made my heart tremble, my
veins glow when I viewed them.  Little things recall us to earth;
the clock struck in the hall; that sufficed; I turned from moon
and stars, opened a side-door, and went in.
The hall was not dark, nor yet was it lit, only by the high-hung
bronze lamp; a warm glow suffused both it and the lower steps of the
oak staircase.  This ruddy shine issued from the great dining-room,
whose two-leaved door stood open, and showed a genial fire in the
grate, glancing on marble hearth and brass fire-irons, and revealing
purple draperies and polished furniture, in the most pleasant
radiance.  It revealed, too, a group near the mantelpiece:  I had
scarcely caught it, and scarcely become aware of a cheerful mingling
of voices, amongst which I seemed to distinguish the tones of Adele,
when the door closed.
I hastened to Mrs. Fairfax's room; there was a fire there too,
but no candle, and no Mrs. Fairfax.  Instead, all alone, sitting
upright on the rug, and gazing with gravity at the blaze, I beheld
a great black and white long-haired dog, just like the Gytrash of
the lane.  It was so like it that I went forward and said -- "Pilot"
and the thing got up and came to me and snuffed me.  I caressed
him, and he wagged his great tail; but he looked an eerie creature
to be alone with, and I could not tell whence he had come.  I
rang the bell, for I wanted a candle; and I wanted, too, to get an
account of this visitant.  Leah entered.
"What dog is this?"
"He came with master."
"With whom?"
"With master -- Mr. Rochester -- he is just arrived."
"Indeed!  and is Mrs. Fairfax with him?"
"Yes, and Miss Adele; they are in the dining-room, and John is gone
for a surgeon; for master has had an accident; his horse fell and
his ankle is sprained."
"Did the horse fall in Hay Lane?"
"Yes, coming down-hill; it slipped on some ice."
"Ah!  Bring me a candle will you Leah?"
Leah brought it; she entered, followed by Mrs. Fairfax, who repeated
the news; adding that Mr. Carter the surgeon was come, and was now
with Mr. Rochester:  then she hurried out to give orders about tea,
and I went upstairs to take off my things.
CHAPTER XIII
Mr. Rochester, it seems, by the surgeon's orders, went to bed early
that night; nor did he rise soon next morning.  When he did come
down, it was to attend to business:  his agent and some of his
tenants were arrived, and waiting to speak with him.
Adele and I had now to vacate the library:  it would be in daily
requisition as a reception-room for callers.  A fire was lit in
an apartment upstairs, and there I carried our books, and arranged
it for the future schoolroom.  I discerned in the course of the
morning that Thornfield Hall was a changed place:  no longer silent
as a church, it echoed every hour or two to a knock at the door,
or a clang of the bell; steps, too, often traversed the hall, and
new voices spoke in different keys below; a rill from the outer world
was flowing through it; it had a master:  for my part, I liked it
better.
Adele was not easy to teach that day; she could not apply:  she
kept running to the door and looking over the banisters to see if
she could get a glimpse of Mr. Rochester; then she coined pretexts
to go downstairs, in order, as I shrewdly suspected, to visit the
library, where I knew she was not wanted; then, when I got a little
angry, and made her sit still, she continued to talk incessantly
of her "ami, Monsieur Edouard Fairfax DE Rochester," as she dubbed
him (I had not before heard his prenomens), and to conjecture
what presents he had brought her:  for it appears he had intimated
the night before, that when his luggage came from Millcote, there
would be found amongst it a little box in whose contents she had
an interest.
"Et cela doit signifier," said she, "qu'il y aura le dedans un cadeau
pour moi, et peut-etre pour vous aussi, mademoiselle.  Monsieur
a parle de vous:  il m'a demande le nom de ma gouvernante, et si
elle n'etait pas une petite personne, assez mince et un peu pale.
J'ai dit qu'oui:  car c'est vrai, n'est-ce pas, mademoiselle?"
I and my pupil dined as usual in Mrs. Fairfax's parlour; the
afternoon was wild and snowy, and we passed it in the schoolroom.
At dark I allowed Adele to put away books and work, and to
run downstairs; for, from the comparative silence below, and from
the cessation of appeals to the door-bell, I conjectured that Mr.
Rochester was now at liberty.  Left alone, I walked to the window;
but nothing was to be seen thence:  twilight and snowflakes together
thickened the air, and hid the very shrubs on the lawn.  I let down
the curtain and went back to the fireside.
In the clear embers I was tracing a view, not unlike a picture I
remembered to have seen of the castle of Heidelberg, on the Rhine,
when Mrs. Fairfax came in, breaking up by her entrance the fiery
mosaic I had been piercing together, and scattering too some heavy
unwelcome thoughts that were beginning to throng on my solitude.
"Mr. Rochester would be glad if you and your pupil would take tea
with him in the drawing-room this evening," said she:  "he has been
so much engaged all day that he could not ask to see you before."
"When is his tea-time?"  I inquired.
"Oh, at six o'clock:  he keeps early hours in the country.  You
had better change your frock now; I will go with you and fasten
it.  Here is a candle."
"Is it necessary to change my frock?"
"Yes, you had better:  I always dress for the evening when Mr.
Rochester is here."
This additional ceremony seemed somewhat stately; however, I repaired
to my room, and, with Mrs. Fairfax's aid, replaced my black stuff
dress by one of black silk; the best and the only additional one
I had, except one of light grey, which, in my Lowood notions of
the toilette, I thought too fine to be worn, except on first-rate
occasions.
"You want a brooch," said Mrs. Fairfax.  I had a single little pearl
ornament which Miss Temple gave me as a parting keepsake:  I put
it on, and then we went downstairs.  Unused as I was to strangers,
it was rather a trial to appear thus formally summoned in
Mr. Rochester's presence.  I let Mrs. Fairfax precede me into the
dining-room, and kept in her shade as we crossed that apartment;
and, passing the arch, whose curtain was now dropped, entered the
elegant recess beyond.
Two wax candles stood lighted on the table, and two on the mantelpiece;
basking in the light and heat of a superb fire, lay Pilot -- Adele
knelt near him.  Half reclined on a couch appeared Mr. Rochester,
his foot supported by the cushion; he was looking at Adele and the
dog:  the fire shone full on his face.  I knew my traveller with
his broad and jetty eyebrows; his square forehead, made squarer by
the horizontal sweep of his black hair.  I recognised his decisive
nose, more remarkable for character than beauty; his full nostrils,
denoting, I thought, choler; his grim mouth, chin, and jaw -- yes,
all three were very grim, and no mistake.  His shape, now divested
of cloak, I perceived harmonised in squareness with his physiognomy:
I suppose it was a good figure in the athletic sense of the term
-- broad chested and thin flanked, though neither tall nor graceful.
Mr. Rochester must have been aware of the entrance of Mrs. Fairfax
and myself; but it appeared he was not in the mood to notice us,
for he never lifted his head as we approached.
"Here is Miss Eyre, sir," said Mrs. Fairfax, in her quiet way.
He bowed, still not taking his eyes from the group of the dog and
child.
"Let Miss Eyre be seated," said he:  and there was something in the
forced stiff bow, in the impatient yet formal tone, which seemed
further to express, "What the deuce is it to me whether Miss Eyre
be there or not?  At this moment I am not disposed to accost her."
I sat down quite disembarrassed.  A reception of finished politeness
would probably have confused me:  I could not have returned or
repaid it by answering grace and elegance on my part; but harsh
caprice laid me under no obligation; on the contrary, a decent
quiescence, under the freak of manner, gave me the advantage.
Besides, the eccentricity of the proceeding was piquant:  I felt
interested to see how he would go on.
