
He went on as a statue would, that is, he neither spoke nor moved.
Mrs. Fairfax seemed to think it necessary that some one should be
amiable, and she began to talk.  Kindly, as usual -- and, as usual,
rather trite -- she condoled with him on the pressure of business
he had had all day; on the annoyance it must have been to him with
that painful sprain:  then she commended his patience and perseverance
in going through with it.
"Madam, I should like some tea," was the sole rejoinder she got.
She hastened to ring the bell; and when the tray came, she proceeded
to arrange the cups, spoons, &c., with assiduous celerity.  I and
Adele went to the table; but the master did not leave his couch.
"Will you hand Mr. Rochester's cup?"  said Mrs. Fairfax to me;
"Adele might perhaps spill it."
I did as requested.  As he took the cup from my hand, Adele, thinking
the moment propitious for making a request in my favour, cried out -
"N'est-ce pas, monsieur, qu'il y a un cadeau pour Mademoiselle Eyre
dans votre petit coffre?"
"Who talks of cadeaux?"  said he gruffly.  "Did you expect a
present, Miss Eyre?  Are you fond of presents?"  and he searched
my face with eyes that I saw were dark, irate, and piercing.
"I hardly know, sir; I have little experience of them:  they are
generally thought pleasant things."
"Generally thought?  But what do YOU think?"
"I should be obliged to take time, sir, before I could give you
an answer worthy of your acceptance:  a present has many faces to
it, has it not?  and one should consider all, before pronouncing
an opinion as to its nature."
"Miss Eyre, you are not so unsophisticated as Adele:  she demands
a 'cadeau,' clamorously, the moment she sees me:  you beat about
the bush."
"Because I have less confidence in my deserts than Adele has:  she
can prefer the claim of old acquaintance, and the right too of
custom; for she says you have always been in the habit of giving
her playthings; but if I had to make out a case I should be puzzled,
since I am a stranger, and have done nothing to entitle me to an
acknowledgment."
"Oh, don't fall back on over-modesty!  I have examined Adele, and
find you have taken great pains with her:  she is not bright, she
has no talents; yet in a short time she has made much improvement."
"Sir, you have now given me my 'cadeau;' I am obliged to you:  it
is the meed teachers most covet -- praise of their pupils' progress."
"Humph!"  said Mr. Rochester, and he took his tea in silence.
"Come to the fire," said the master, when the tray was taken away,
and Mrs. Fairfax had settled into a corner with her knitting;
while Adele was leading me by the hand round the room, showing me
the beautiful books and ornaments on the consoles and chiffonnieres.
We obeyed, as in duty bound; Adele wanted to take a seat on my
knee, but she was ordered to amuse herself with Pilot.
"You have been resident in my house three months?"
"Yes, sir."
"And you came from -- ?"
"From Lowood school, in -shire."
"Ah!  a charitable concern.  How long were you there?"
"Eight years."
"Eight years!  you must be tenacious of life.  I thought half the
time in such a place would have done up any constitution!  No wonder
you have rather the look of another world.  I marvelled where you
had got that sort of face.  When you came on me in Hay Lane last
night, I thought unaccountably of fairy tales, and had half a mind
to demand whether you had bewitched my horse:  I am not sure yet.
Who are your parents?"
"I have none."
"Nor ever had, I suppose:  do you remember them?"
"No."
"I thought not.  And so you were waiting for your people when you
sat on that stile?"
"For whom, sir?"
"For the men in green:  it was a proper moonlight evening for them.
Did I break through one of your rings, that you spread that damned
ice on the causeway?"
I shook my head.  "The men in green all forsook England a hundred
years ago," said I, speaking as seriously as he had done.  "And not
even in Hay Lane, or the fields about it, could you find a trace
of them.  I don't think either summer or harvest, or winter moon,
will ever shine on their revels more."
Mrs. Fairfax had dropped her knitting, and, with raised eyebrows,
seemed wondering what sort of talk this was.
"Well," resumed Mr. Rochester, "if you disown parents, you must
have some sort of kinsfolk:  uncles and aunts?"
"No; none that I ever saw."
"And your home?"
"I have none."
"Where do your brothers and sisters live?"
"I have no brothers or sisters."
"Who recommended you to come here?"
"I advertised, and Mrs. Fairfax answered my advertisement."
"Yes," said the good lady, who now knew what ground we were upon,
"and I am daily thankful for the choice Providence led me to make.
Miss Eyre has been an invaluable companion to me, and a kind and
careful teacher to Adele."
"Don't trouble yourself to give her a character," returned Mr.
Rochester:  "eulogiums will not bias me; I shall judge for myself.
She began by felling my horse."
"Sir?"  said Mrs. Fairfax.
"I have to thank her for this sprain."
The widow looked bewildered.
"Miss Eyre, have you ever lived in a town?"
"No, sir."
"Have you seen much society?"
"None but the pupils and teachers of Lowood, and now the inmates
of Thornfield."
"Have you read much?"
"Only such books as came in my way; and they have not been numerous
or very learned."
"You have lived the life of a nun:  no doubt you are well drilled
in religious forms; -- Brocklehurst, who I understand directs
Lowood, is a parson, is he not?"
