
"No:  but night will come again before long:  and besides, -- I am
unhappy, -- very unhappy, for other things."
"What other things?  Can you tell me some of them?"
How much I wished to reply fully to this question!  How difficult
it was to frame any answer!  Children can feel, but they cannot
analyse their feelings; and if the analysis is partially effected
in thought, they know not how to express the result of the process
in words.  Fearful, however, of losing this first and only opportunity
of relieving my grief by imparting it, I, after a disturbed pause,
contrived to frame a meagre, though, as far as it went, true
response.
"For one thing, I have no father or mother, brothers or sisters."
"You have a kind aunt and cousins."
Again I paused; then bunglingly enounced -
"But John Reed knocked me down, and my aunt shut me up in the red-
room."
Mr. Lloyd a second time produced his snuff-box.
"Don't you think Gateshead Hall a very beautiful house?"  asked
he.  "Are you not very thankful to have such a fine place to live
at?"
"It is not my house, sir; and Abbot says I have less right to be
here than a servant."
"Pooh!  you can't be silly enough to wish to leave such a splendid
place?"
"If I had anywhere else to go, I should be glad to leave it; but
I can never get away from Gateshead till I am a woman."
"Perhaps you may -- who knows?  Have you any relations besides Mrs.
Reed?"
"I think not, sir."
"None belonging to your father?"
"I don't know.  I asked Aunt Reed once, and she said possibly
I might have some poor, low relations called Eyre, but she knew
nothing about them."
"If you had such, would you like to go to them?"
I reflected.  Poverty looks grim to grown people; still more
so to children:  they have not much idea of industrious, working,
respectable poverty; they think of the word only as connected with
ragged clothes, scanty food, fireless grates, rude manners, and
debasing vices:  poverty for me was synonymous with degradation.
"No; I should not like to belong to poor people," was my reply.
"Not even if they were kind to you?"
I shook my head:  I could not see how poor people had the means of
being kind; and then to learn to speak like them, to adopt their
manners, to be uneducated, to grow up like one of the poor women I
saw sometimes nursing their children or washing their clothes at
the cottage doors of the village of Gateshead:  no, I was not heroic
enough to purchase liberty at the price of caste.
"But are your relatives so very poor?  Are they working people?"
"I cannot tell; Aunt.  Reed says if I have any, they must be a
beggarly set:  I should not like to go a begging."
"Would you like to go to school?"
Again I reflected:  I scarcely knew what school was:  Bessie
sometimes spoke of it as a place where young ladies sat in the stocks,
wore backboards, and were expected to be exceedingly genteel and
precise:  John Reed hated his school, and abused his master; but
John Reed's tastes were no rule for mine, and if Bessie's accounts
of school-discipline (gathered from the young ladies of a family
where she had lived before coming to Gateshead) were somewhat
appalling, her details of certain accomplishments attained by
these same young ladies were, I thought, equally attractive.  She
boasted of beautiful paintings of landscapes and flowers by them
executed; of songs they could sing and pieces they could play, of
purses they could net, of French books they could translate; till
my spirit was moved to emulation as I listened.  Besides, school
would be a complete change:  it implied a long journey, an entire
separation from Gateshead, an entrance into a new life.
"I should indeed like to go to school," was the audible conclusion
of my musings.
"Well, well!  who knows what may happen?"  said Mr. Lloyd, as he got
up.  "The child ought to have change of air and scene," he added,
speaking to himself; "nerves not in a good state."
Bessie now returned; at the same moment the carriage was heard
rolling up the gravel-walk.
"Is that your mistress, nurse?"  asked Mr. Lloyd.  "I should like
to speak to her before I go."
Bessie invited him to walk into the breakfast-room, and led the way
out.  In the interview which followed between him and Mrs. Reed,
I presume, from after-occurrences, that the apothecary ventured to
recommend my being sent to school; and the recommendation was no
doubt readily enough adopted; for as Abbot said, in discussing the
subject with Bessie when both sat sewing in the nursery one night,
after I was in bed, and, as they thought, asleep, "Missis was, she
dared say, glad enough to get rid of such a tiresome, ill- conditioned
child, who always looked as if she were watching everybody, and
scheming plots underhand."  Abbot, I think, gave me credit for
being a sort of infantine Guy Fawkes.
On that same occasion I learned, for the first time, from Miss
Abbot's communications to Bessie, that my father had been a poor
clergyman; that my mother had married him against the wishes of her
friends, who considered the match beneath her; that my grandfather
Reed was so irritated at her disobedience, he cut her off without
a shilling; that after my mother and father had been married a
year, the latter caught the typhus fever while visiting among the
poor of a large manufacturing town where his curacy was situated,
and where that disease was then prevalent:  that my mother took
the infection from him, and both died within a month of each other.
Bessie, when she heard this narrative, sighed and said, "Poor Miss
Jane is to be pitied, too, Abbot."
"Yes," responded Abbot; "if she were a nice, pretty child, one might
compassionate her forlornness; but one really cannot care for such
a little toad as that."
"Not a great deal, to be sure," agreed Bessie:  "at any rate, a beauty
like Miss Georgiana would be more moving in the same condition."
"Yes, I doat on Miss Georgiana!"  cried the fervent Abbot.  "Little
darling! -- with her long curls and her blue eyes, and such a sweet
colour as she has; just as if she were painted! -- Bessie, I could
fancy a Welsh rabbit for supper."
"So could I -- with a roast onion.  Come, we'll go down."  They
went.
CHAPTER IV
From my discourse with Mr. Lloyd, and from the above reported
conference between Bessie and Abbot, I gathered enough of hope to
suffice as a motive for wishing to get well:  a change seemed near,
-- I desired and waited it in silence.  It tarried, however:  days
and weeks passed:  I had regained my normal state of health, but
no new allusion was made to the subject over which I brooded.  Mrs.
Reed surveyed me at times with a severe eye, but seldom addressed
me:  since my illness, she had drawn a more marked line of separation
than ever between me and her own children; appointing me a small
closet to sleep in by myself, condemning me to take my meals
alone, and pass all my time in the nursery, while my cousins were
constantly in the drawing-room.  Not a hint, however, did she drop
about sending me to school:  still I felt an instinctive certainty
that she would not long endure me under the same roof with her;
for her glance, now more than ever, when turned on me, expressed
an insuperable and rooted aversion.
Eliza and Georgiana, evidently acting according to orders, spoke
to me as little as possible:  John thrust his tongue in his cheek
whenever he saw me, and once attempted chastisement; but as I
instantly turned against him, roused by the same sentiment of deep
ire and desperate revolt which had stirred my corruption before, he
thought it better to desist, and ran from me tittering execrations,
and vowing I had burst his nose.  I had indeed levelled at that
prominent feature as hard a blow as my knuckles could inflict;
and when I saw that either that or my look daunted him, I had the
greatest inclination to follow up my advantage to purpose; but he was
already with his mama.  I heard him in a blubbering tone commence
the tale of how "that nasty Jane Eyre" had flown at him
like a mad cat:  he was stopped rather harshly -
"Don't talk to me about her, John:  I told you not to go near her;
she is not worthy of notice; I do not choose that either you or
your sisters should associate with her."
Here, leaning over the banister, I cried out suddenly,
and without at all deliberating on my words -
"They are not fit to associate with me."
Mrs. Reed was rather a stout woman; but, on hearing this strange
and audacious declaration, she ran nimbly up the stair, swept me
like a whirlwind into the nursery, and crushing me down on the edge
of my crib, dared me in an emphatic voice to rise from that place,
or utter one syllable during the remainder of the day.
"What would Uncle Reed say to you, if he were alive?"  was my
scarcely voluntary demand.  I say scarcely voluntary, for it seemed
as if my tongue pronounced words without my will consenting to their
utterance:  something spoke out of me over which I had no control.
"What?"  said Mrs. Reed under her breath:  her usually cold composed
grey eye became troubled with a look like fear; she took her hand
from my arm, and gazed at me as if she really did not know whether
I were child or fiend.  I was now in for it.
"My Uncle Reed is in heaven, and can see all you do and think; and
so can papa and mama:  they know how you shut me up all day long,
and how you wish me dead."
Mrs. Reed soon rallied her spirits:  she shook me most soundly,
she boxed both my ears, and then left me without a word.  Bessie
supplied the hiatus by a homily of an hour's length, in which she
proved beyond a doubt that I was the most wicked and abandoned child
ever reared under a roof.  I half believed her; for I felt indeed
only bad feelings surging in my breast.
