
"Yes, sir."
"And you girls probably worshipped him, as a convent full of
religieuses would worship their director."
"Oh, no."
"You are very cool!  No!  What!  a novice not worship her priest!
That sounds blasphemous."
"I disliked Mr. Brocklehurst; and I was not alone in the feeling.
He is a harsh man; at once pompous and meddling; he cut off our
hair; and for economy's sake bought us bad needles and thread, with
which we could hardly sew."
"That was very false economy," remarked Mrs. Fairfax, who now again
caught the drift of the dialogue.
"And was that the head and front of his offending?"  demanded Mr.
Rochester.
"He starved us when he had the sole superintendence of the provision
department, before the committee was appointed; and he bored us with
long lectures once a week, and with evening readings from books of
his own inditing, about sudden deaths and judgments, which made us
afraid to go to bed."
"What age were you when you went to Lowood?"
"About ten."
"And you stayed there eight years:  you are now, then, eighteen?"
I assented.
"Arithmetic, you see, is useful; without its aid, I should hardly
have been able to guess your age.  It is a point difficult to fix
where the features and countenance are so much at variance as in
your case.  And now what did you learn at Lowood?  Can you play?"
"A little."
"Of course:  that is the established answer.  Go into the library
-- I mean, if you please. -- (Excuse my tone of command; I am used
to say, 'Do this,' and it is done:  I cannot alter my customary
habits for one new inmate.) -- Go, then, into the library; take a
candle with you; leave the door open; sit down to the piano, and
play a tune."
I departed, obeying his directions.
"Enough!"  he called out in a few minutes.  "You play A LITTLE, I
see; like any other English school-girl; perhaps rather better than
some, but not well."
I closed the piano and returned.  Mr. Rochester continued -- "Adele
showed me some sketches this morning, which she said were yours.
I don't know whether they were entirely of your doing; probably a
master aided you?"
"No, indeed!"  I interjected.
"Ah!  that pricks pride.  Well, fetch me your portfolio, if you
can vouch for its contents being original; but don't pass your word
unless you are certain:  I can recognise patchwork."
"Then I will say nothing, and you shall judge for yourself, sir."
I brought the portfolio from the library.
"Approach the table," said he; and I wheeled it to his couch.  Adele
and Mrs. Fairfax drew near to see the pictures.
"No crowding," said Mr. Rochester:  "take the drawings from my hand
as I finish with them; but don't push your faces up to mine."
He deliberately scrutinised each sketch and painting.  Three he
laid aside; the others, when he had examined them, he swept from
him.
"Take them off to the other table, Mrs. Fairfax," said he, "and
look at them with Adele; -- you" (glancing at me) "resume your seat,
and answer my questions.  I perceive those pictures were done by
one hand:  was that hand yours?"
"Yes."
"And when did you find time to do them?  They have taken much time,
and some thought."
"I did them in the last two vacations I spent at Lowood, when I
had no other occupation."
"Where did you get your copies?"
"Out of my head."
"That head I see now on your shoulders?"
"Yes, sir."
"Has it other furniture of the same kind within?"
"I should think it may have:  I should hope -- better."
He spread the pictures before him, and again surveyed them alternately.
While he is so occupied, I will tell you, reader, what they are:
and first, I must premise that they are nothing wonderful.  The
subjects had, indeed, risen vividly on my mind.  As I saw them with
the spiritual eye, before I attempted to embody them, they were
striking; but my hand would not second my fancy, and in each case
it had wrought out but a pale portrait of the thing I had conceived.
These pictures were in water-colours.  The first represented clouds
low and livid, rolling over a swollen sea:  all the distance was
in eclipse; so, too, was the foreground; or rather, the nearest
billows, for there was no land.  One gleam of light lifted into
relief a half-submerged mast, on which sat a cormorant, dark and
large, with wings flecked with foam; its beak held a gold bracelet
set with gems, that I had touched with as brilliant tints as my
palette could yield, and as glittering distinctness as my pencil
could impart.  Sinking below the bird and mast, a drowned corpse
glanced through the green water; a fair arm was the only limb
clearly visible, whence the bracelet had been washed or torn.
The second picture contained for foreground only the dim peak
of a hill, with grass and some leaves slanting as if by a breeze.
Beyond and above spread an expanse of sky, dark blue as at twilight:
rising into the sky was a woman's shape to the bust, portrayed in
tints as dusk and soft as I could combine.  The dim forehead was
crowned with a star; the lineaments below were seen as through the
suffusion of vapour; the eyes shone dark and wild; the hair streamed
shadowy, like a beamless cloud torn by storm or by electric travail.
On the neck lay a pale reflection like moonlight; the same faint
lustre touched the train of thin clouds from which rose and bowed
this vision of the Evening Star.
The third showed the pinnacle of an iceberg piercing a polar winter
sky:  a muster of northern lights reared their dim lances, close
serried, along the horizon.  Throwing these into distance, rose,
in the foreground, a head, -- a colossal head, inclined towards
the iceberg, and resting against it.  Two thin hands, joined under
the forehead, and supporting it, drew up before the lower features a
sable veil, a brow quite bloodless, white as bone, and an eye hollow
and fixed, blank of meaning but for the glassiness of despair, alone
were visible.  Above the temples, amidst wreathed turban folds of
black drapery, vague in its character and consistency as cloud,
gleamed a ring of white flame, gemmed with sparkles of a more lurid
tinge.  This pale crescent was "the likeness of a kingly crown;"
what it diademed was "the shape which shape had none."
"Were you happy when you painted these pictures?"  asked Mr.
Rochester presently.
"I was absorbed, sir:  yes, and I was happy.  To paint them, in
short, was to enjoy one of the keenest pleasures I have ever known."
"That is not saying much.  Your pleasures, by your own account,
have been few; but I daresay you did exist in a kind of artist's
dreamland while you blent and arranged these strange tints.  Did
you sit at them long each day?"
"I had nothing else to do, because it was the vacation, and I sat
at them from morning till noon, and from noon till night:  the
length of the midsummer days favoured my inclination to apply."
"And you felt self-satisfied with the result of your ardent labours?"
"Far from it.  I was tormented by the contrast between my idea and
my handiwork:  in each case I had imagined something which I was
quite powerless to realise."
"Not quite:  you have secured the shadow of your thought; but no
more, probably.  You had not enough of the artist's skill and science
to give it full being:  yet the drawings are, for a school-girl,
peculiar.  As to the thoughts, they are elfish.  These eyes in the
Evening Star you must have seen in a dream.  How could you make
them look so clear, and yet not at all brilliant?  for the planet
above quells their rays.  And what meaning is that in their solemn
depth?  And who taught you to paint wind?  There is a high gale
in that sky, and on this hill-top.  Where did you see Latmos?  For
that is Latmos.  There!  put the drawings away!"
I had scarce tied the strings of the portfolio, when, looking
at his watch, he said abruptly -
"It is nine o'clock:  what are you about, Miss Eyre, to let Adele
sit up so long?  Take her to bed."
Adele went to kiss him before quitting the room:  he endured the
caress, but scarcely seemed to relish it more than Pilot would have
done, nor so much.
