
"I wish you all good-night, now," said he, making a movement of the
hand towards the door, in token that he was tired of our company,
and wished to dismiss us.  Mrs. Fairfax folded up her knitting:  I
took my portfolio:  we curtseyed to him, received a frigid bow in
return, and so withdrew.
"You said Mr. Rochester was not strikingly peculiar, Mrs. Fairfax,"
I observed, when I rejoined her in her room, after putting Adele
to bed.
"Well, is he?"
"I think so:  he is very changeful and abrupt."
"True:  no doubt he may appear so to a stranger, but I am so
accustomed to his manner, I never think of it; and then, if he has
peculiarities of temper, allowance should be made."
"Why?"
"Partly because it is his nature -- and we can none of us help our
nature; and partly because he has painful thoughts, no doubt, to
harass him, and make his spirits unequal."
"What about?"
"Family troubles, for one thing."
"But he has no family."
"Not now, but he has had -- or, at least, relatives.  He lost his
elder brother a few years since."
"His ELDER brother?"
"Yes.  The present Mr. Rochester has not been very long in possession
of the property; only about nine years."
"Nine years is a tolerable time.  Was he so very fond of his brother
as to be still inconsolable for his loss?"
"Why, no -- perhaps not.  I believe there were some misunderstandings
between them.  Mr. Rowland Rochester was not quite just to Mr.
Edward; and perhaps he prejudiced his father against him.  The old
gentleman was fond of money, and anxious to keep the family estate
together.  He did not like to diminish the property by division,
and yet he was anxious that Mr. Edward should have wealth, too,
to keep up the consequence of the name; and, soon after he was of
age, some steps were taken that were not quite fair, and made a
great deal of mischief.  Old Mr. Rochester and Mr. Rowland combined
to bring Mr. Edward into what he considered a painful position, for
the sake of making his fortune:  what the precise nature of that
position was I never clearly knew, but his spirit could not brook
what he had to suffer in it.  He is not very forgiving:  he broke
with his family, and now for many years he has led an unsettled
kind of life.  I don't think he has ever been resident at Thornfield
for a fortnight together, since the death of his brother without
a will left him master of the estate; and, indeed, no wonder he
shuns the old place."
"Why should he shun it?"
"Perhaps he thinks it gloomy."
The answer was evasive.  I should have liked something clearer; but
Mrs. Fairfax either could not, or would not, give me more explicit
information of the origin and nature of Mr. Rochester's trials.
She averred they were a mystery to herself, and that what she knew
was chiefly from conjecture.  It was evident, indeed, that she
wished me to drop the subject, which I did accordingly.
CHAPTER XIV
For several subsequent days I saw little of Mr. Rochester.  In the
mornings he seemed much engaged with business, and, in the afternoon,
gentlemen from Millcote or the neighbourhood called, and sometimes
stayed to dine with him.  When his sprain was well enough to admit
of horse exercise, he rode out a good deal; probably to return
these visits, as he generally did not come back till late at night.
During this interval, even Adele was seldom sent for to his presence,
and all my acquaintance with him was confined to an occasional
rencontre in the hall, on the stairs, or in the gallery, when he
would sometimes pass me haughtily and coldly, just acknowledging
my presence by a distant nod or a cool glance, and sometimes bow
and smile with gentlemanlike affability.  His changes of mood did
not offend me, because I saw that I had nothing to do with their
alternation; the ebb and flow depended on causes quite disconnected
with me.
One day he had had company to dinner, and had sent for my portfolio;
in order, doubtless, to exhibit its contents:  the gentlemen went
away early, to attend a public meeting at Millcote, as Mrs. Fairfax
informed me; but the night being wet and inclement, Mr. Rochester
did not accompany them.  Soon after they were gone he rang the bell:
a message came that I and Adele were to go downstairs.  I brushed
Adele's hair and made her neat, and having ascertained that I was
myself in my usual Quaker trim, where there was nothing to retouch
-- all being too close and plain, braided locks included, to admit
of disarrangement -- we descended, Adele wondering whether the
petit coffre was at length come; for, owing to some mistake, its
arrival had hitherto been delayed.  She was gratified:  there it
stood, a little carton, on the table when we entered the dining-room.
She appeared to know it by instinct.
"Ma boite!  ma boite!"  exclaimed she, running towards it.
"Yes, there is your 'boite' at last:  take it into a corner, you
genuine daughter of Paris, and amuse yourself with disembowelling
it," said the deep and rather sarcastic voice of Mr. Rochester,
proceeding from the depths of an immense easy-chair at the fireside.
"And mind," he continued, "don't bother me with any details of the
anatomical process, or any notice of the condition of the entrails:
let your operation be conducted in silence:  tiens-toi tranquille,
enfant; comprends-tu?"
Adele seemed scarcely to need the warning -- she had already retired
to a sofa with her treasure, and was busy untying the cord which
secured the lid.  Having removed this impediment, and lifted
certain silvery envelopes of tissue paper, she merely exclaimed -
"Oh ciel!  Que c'est beau!"  and then remained absorbed in ecstatic
contemplation.
"Is Miss Eyre there?"  now demanded the master, half rising from
his seat to look round to the door, near which I still stood.
"Ah!  well, come forward; be seated here."  He drew a chair near
his own.  "I am not fond of the prattle of children," he continued;
"for, old bachelor as I am, I have no pleasant associations
connected with their lisp.  It would be intolerable to me to pass
a whole evening tete-e-tete with a brat.  Don't draw that chair
farther off, Miss Eyre; sit down exactly where I placed it -- if
you please, that is.  Confound these civilities!  I continually
forget them.  Nor do I particularly affect simple-minded old ladies.
By-the-bye, I must have mine in mind; it won't do to neglect her;
she is a Fairfax, or wed to one; and blood is said to be thicker
than water."
He rang, and despatched an invitation to Mrs. Fairfax, who soon
arrived, knitting-basket in hand.
"Good evening, madam; I sent to you for a charitable purpose.  I
have forbidden Adele to talk to me about her presents, and she is
bursting with repletion:  have the goodness to serve her as auditress
and interlocutrice; it will be one of the most benevolent acts you
ever performed."
Adele, indeed, no sooner saw Mrs. Fairfax, than she summoned her
to her sofa, and there quickly filled her lap with the porcelain,
the ivory, the waxen contents of her "boite;" pouring out, meantime,
explanations and raptures in such broken English as she was mistress
of.
"Now I have performed the part of a good host," pursued Mr. Rochester,
"put my guests into the way of amusing each other, I ought to be at
liberty to attend to my own pleasure.  Miss Eyre, draw your chair
still a little farther forward:  you are yet too far back; I cannot
see you without disturbing my position in this comfortable chair,
which I have no mind to do."
I did as I was bid, though I would much rather have remained
somewhat in the shade; but Mr. Rochester had such a direct way of
giving orders, it seemed a matter of course to obey him promptly.
We were, as I have said, in the dining-room:  the lustre, which
had been lit for dinner, filled the room with a festal breadth of
light; the large fire was all red and clear; the purple curtains
hung rich and ample before the lofty window and loftier arch;
everything was still, save the subdued chat of Adele (she dared
not speak loud), and, filling up each pause, the beating of winter
rain against the panes.
Mr. Rochester, as he sat in his damask-covered chair, looked
different to what I had seen him look before; not quite so stern
-- much less gloomy.  There was a smile on his lips, and his eyes
sparkled, whether with wine or not, I am not sure; but I think it
very probable.  He was, in short, in his after-dinner mood; more
expanded and genial, and also more self-indulgent than the frigid
and rigid temper of the morning; still he looked preciously grim,
cushioning his massive head against the swelling back of his chair,
and receiving the light of the fire on his granite-hewn features,
and in his great, dark eyes; for he had great, dark eyes, and very
fine eyes, too -- not without a certain change in their depths
sometimes, which, if it was not softness, reminded you, at least,
of that feeling.
He had been looking two minutes at the fire, and I had been looking
the same length of time at him, when, turning suddenly, he caught
my gaze fastened on his physiognomy.
"You examine me, Miss Eyre," said he:  "do you think me handsome?"
I should, if I had deliberated, have replied to this question by
something conventionally vague and polite; but the answer somehow
slipped from my tongue before I was aware -- "No, sir."
"Ah!  By my word!  there is something singular about you," said
he:  "you have the air of a little nonnette; quaint, quiet, grave,
and simple, as you sit with your hands before you, and your eyes
generally bent on the carpet (except, by-the-bye, when they are
directed piercingly to my face; as just now, for instance); and
when one asks you a question, or makes a remark to which you are
obliged to reply, you rap out a round rejoinder, which, if not
blunt, is at least brusque.  What do you mean by it?"
"Sir, I was too plain; I beg your pardon.  I ought to have replied
that it was not easy to give an impromptu answer to a question
about appearances; that tastes mostly differ; and that beauty is
of little consequence, or something of that sort."
"You ought to have replied no such thing.  Beauty of little consequence,
indeed!  And so, under pretence of softening the previous outrage,
of stroking and soothing me into placidity, you stick a sly penknife
under my ear!  Go on:  what fault do you find with me, pray?  I
suppose I have all my limbs and all my features like any other
man?"
"Mr. Rochester, allow me to disown my first answer:  I intended no
pointed repartee:  it was only a blunder."
"Just so:  I think so:  and you shall be answerable for it.  Criticise
me:  does my forehead not please you?"
He lifted up the sable waves of hair which lay horizontally over
his brow, and showed a solid enough mass of intellectual organs,
but an abrupt deficiency where the suave sign of benevolence should
have risen.
"Now, ma'am, am I a fool?"
"Far from it, sir.  You would, perhaps, think me rude if I inquired
in return whether you are a philanthropist?"
"There again!  Another stick of the penknife, when she pretended
to pat my head:  and that is because I said I did not like the
society of children and old women (low be it spoken!).  No, young
lady, I am not a general philanthropist; but I bear a conscience;"
and he pointed to the prominences which are said to indicate
that faculty, and which, fortunately for him, were sufficiently
conspicuous; giving, indeed, a marked breadth to the upper part of
his head:  "and, besides, I once had a kind of rude tenderness of
heart.  When I was as old as you, I was a feeling fellow enough,
partial to the unfledged, unfostered, and unlucky; but Fortune has
knocked me about since:  she has even kneaded me with her knuckles,
and now I flatter myself I am hard and tough as an India-rubber
ball; pervious, though, through a chink or two still, and with one
sentient point in the middle of the lump.  Yes:  does that leave
hope for me?"
