
"Hope of what, sir?"
"Of my final re-transformation from India-rubber back to flesh?"
"Decidedly he has had too much wine," I thought; and I did not
know what answer to make to his queer question:  how could I tell
whether he was capable of being re-transformed?
"You looked very much puzzled, Miss Eyre; and though you are not
pretty any more than I am handsome, yet a puzzled air becomes you;
besides, it is convenient, for it keeps those searching eyes of
yours away from my physiognomy, and busies them with the worsted
flowers of the rug; so puzzle on.  Young lady, I am disposed to be
gregarious and communicative to-night."
With this announcement he rose from his chair, and stood, leaning
his arm on the marble mantelpiece:  in that attitude his shape was
seen plainly as well as his face; his unusual breadth of chest,
disproportionate almost to his length of limb.  I am sure most
people would have thought him an ugly man; yet there was so much
unconscious pride in his port; so much ease in his demeanour; such
a look of complete indifference to his own external appearance; so
haughty a reliance on the power of other qualities, intrinsic or
adventitious, to atone for the lack of mere personal attractiveness,
that, in looking at him, one inevitably shared the indifference,
and, even in a blind, imperfect sense, put faith in the confidence.
"I am disposed to be gregarious and communicative to-night,"
he repeated, "and that is why I sent for you:  the fire and the
chandelier were not sufficient company for me; nor would Pilot have
been, for none of these can talk.  Adele is a degree better, but
still far below the mark; Mrs. Fairfax ditto; you, I am persuaded,
can suit me if you will:  you puzzled me the first evening I
invited you down here.  I have almost forgotten you since:  other
ideas have driven yours from my head; but to-night I am resolved
to be at ease; to dismiss what importunes, and recall what pleases.
It would please me now to draw you out -- to learn more of you --
therefore speak."
Instead of speaking, I smiled; and not a very complacent or submissive
smile either.
"Speak," he urged.
"What about, sir?"
"Whatever you like.  I leave both the choice of subject and the
manner of treating it entirely to yourself."
Accordingly I sat and said nothing:  "If he expects me to talk
for the mere sake of talking and showing off, he will find he has
addressed himself to the wrong person," I thought.
"You are dumb, Miss Eyre."
I was dumb still.  He bent his head a little towards me, and with
a single hasty glance seemed to dive into my eyes.
"Stubborn?"  he said, "and annoyed.  Ah!  it is consistent.  I put
my request in an absurd, almost insolent form.  Miss Eyre, I beg
your pardon.  The fact is, once for all, I don't wish to treat you
like an inferior:  that is" (correcting himself), "I claim only
such superiority as must result from twenty years' difference in
age and a century's advance in experience.  This is legitimate,
et j'y tiens, as Adele would say; and it is by virtue of this
superiority, and this alone, that I desire you to have the goodness
to talk to me a little now, and divert my thoughts, which are galled
with dwelling on one point -- cankering as a rusty nail."
He had deigned an explanation, almost an apology, and I did not
feel insensible to his condescension, and would not seem so.
"I am willing to amuse you, if I can, sir -- quite willing; but I
cannot introduce a topic, because how do I know what will interest
you?  Ask me questions, and I will do my best to answer them."
"Then, in the first place, do you agree with me that I have a right
to be a little masterful, abrupt, perhaps exacting, sometimes,
on the grounds I stated, namely, that I am old enough to be your
father, and that I have battled through a varied experience with
many men of many nations, and roamed over half the globe, while
you have lived quietly with one set of people in one house?"
"Do as you please, sir."
"That is no answer; or rather it is a very irritating, because a
very evasive one.  Reply clearly."
"I don't think, sir, you have a right to command me, merely because
you are older than I, or because you have seen more of the world
than I have; your claim to superiority depends on the use you have
made of your time and experience."
"Humph!  Promptly spoken.  But I won't allow that, seeing that it
would never suit my case, as I have made an indifferent, not to
say a bad, use of both advantages.  Leaving superiority out of the
question, then, you must still agree to receive my orders now and
then, without being piqued or hurt by the tone of command.  Will
you?"
I smiled:  I thought to myself Mr. Rochester IS peculiar -- he
seems to forget that he pays me 30 pounds per annum for receiving
his orders.
"The smile is very well," said he, catching instantly the passing
expression; "but speak too."
"I was thinking, sir, that very few masters would trouble themselves
to inquire whether or not their paid subordinates were piqued and
hurt by their orders."
"Paid subordinates!  What!  you are my paid subordinate, are you?
Oh yes, I had forgotten the salary!  Well then, on that mercenary
ground, will you agree to let me hector a little?"
"No, sir, not on that ground; but, on the ground that you did forget
it, and that you care whether or not a dependent is comfortable in
his dependency, I agree heartily."
"And will you consent to dispense with a great many conventional
forms and phrases, without thinking that the omission arises from
insolence?"
"I am sure, sir, I should never mistake informality for insolence:
one I rather like, the other nothing free-born would submit to,
even for a salary."
"Humbug!  Most things free-born will submit to anything for a salary;
therefore, keep to yourself, and don't venture on generalities of
which you are intensely ignorant.  However, I mentally shake hands
with you for your answer, despite its inaccuracy; and as much for
the manner in which it was said, as for the substance of the speech;
the manner was frank and sincere; one does not often see such a
manner:  no, on the contrary, affectation, or coldness, or stupid,
coarse-minded misapprehension of one's meaning are the usual rewards
of candour.  Not three in three thousand raw school-girl-governesses
would have answered me as you have just done.  But I don't mean to
flatter you:  if you are cast in a different mould to the majority,
it is no merit of yours:  Nature did it.  And then, after all,
I go too fast in my conclusions:  for what I yet know, you may
be no better than the rest; you may have intolerable defects to
counterbalance your few good points."
"And so may you," I thought.  My eye met his as the idea crossed
my mind:  he seemed to read the glance, answering as if
its import had been spoken as well as imagined -
"Yes, yes, you are right," said he; "I have plenty of faults of
my own:  I know it, and I don't wish to palliate them, I assure
you.  God wot I need not be too severe about others; I have a past
existence, a series of deeds, a colour of life to contemplate within
my own breast, which might well call my sneers and censures from
my neighbours to myself.  I started, or rather (for like other
defaulters, I like to lay half the blame on ill fortune and adverse
circumstances) was thrust on to a wrong tack at the age of one-and-
twenty, and have never recovered the right course since:  but I
might have been very different; I might have been as good as you
-- wiser -- almost as stainless.  I envy you your peace of mind,
your clean conscience, your unpolluted memory.  Little girl, a
memory without blot or contamination must be an exquisite treasure
-- an inexhaustible source of pure refreshment:  is it not?"
"How was your memory when you were eighteen, sir?"
"All right then; limpid, salubrious:  no gush of bilge water had
turned it to fetid puddle.  I was your equal at eighteen -- quite
your equal.  Nature meant me to be, on the whole, a good man, Miss
Eyre; one of the better kind, and you see I am not so.  You would
say you don't see it; at least I flatter myself I read as much in
your eye (beware, by-the-bye, what you express with that organ;
I am quick at interpreting its language).  Then take my word for
it, -- I am not a villain:  you are not to suppose that -- not
to attribute to me any such bad eminence; but, owing, I verily
believe, rather to circumstances than to my natural bent, I am a
trite commonplace sinner, hackneyed in all the poor petty dissipations
with which the rich and worthless try to put on life.  Do you wonder
that I avow this to you?  Know, that in the course of your future
life you will often find yourself elected the involuntary confidant
of your acquaintances' secrets:  people will instinctively find
out, as I have done, that it is not your forte to tell of yourself,
but to listen while others talk of themselves; they will feel, too,
that you listen with no malevolent scorn of their indiscretion,
but with a kind of innate sympathy; not the less comforting and
encouraging because it is very unobtrusive in its manifestations."
"How do you know? -- how can you guess all this, sir?"
"I know it well; therefore I proceed almost as freely as if I were
writing my thoughts in a diary.  You would say, I should have been
superior to circumstances; so I should -- so I should; but you see
I was not.  When fate wronged me, I had not the wisdom to remain
cool:  I turned desperate; then I degenerated.  Now, when any vicious
simpleton excites my disgust by his paltry ribaldry, I cannot
flatter myself that I am better than he:  I am forced to confess
that he and I are on a level.  I wish I had stood firm -- God
knows I do!  Dread remorse when you are tempted to err, Miss Eyre;
remorse is the poison of life."
"Repentance is said to be its cure, sir."
"It is not its cure.  Reformation may be its cure; and I could
reform -- I have strength yet for that -- if -- but where is the
use of thinking of it, hampered, burdened, cursed as I am?  Besides,
since happiness is irrevocably denied me, I have a right to get
pleasure out of life:  and I WILL get it, cost what it may."
"Then you will degenerate still more, sir."
"Possibly:  yet why should I, if I can get sweet, fresh pleasure?
And I may get it as sweet and fresh as the wild honey the bee
gathers on the moor."
"It will sting -- it will taste bitter, sir."
"How do you know? -- you never tried it.  How very serious -- how
very solemn you look:  and you are as ignorant of the matter as
this cameo head" (taking one from the mantelpiece).  "You have no
right to preach to me, you neophyte, that have not passed the porch
of life, and are absolutely unacquainted with its mysteries."
"I only remind you of your own words, sir:  you said error brought
remorse, and you pronounced remorse the poison of existence."
"And who talks of error now?  I scarcely think the notion
that flittered across my brain was an error.  I believe it was an
inspiration rather than a temptation:  it was very genial, very
soothing -- I know that.  Here it comes again!  It is no devil,
I assure you; or if it be, it has put on the robes of an angel of
light.  I think I must admit so fair a guest when it asks entrance
to my heart."
"Distrust it, sir; it is not a true angel."
"Once more, how do you know?  By what instinct do you pretend to
distinguish between a fallen seraph of the abyss and a messenger
from the eternal throne -- between a guide and a seducer?"
"I judged by your countenance, sir, which was troubled when you
said the suggestion had returned upon you.  I feel sure it will
work you more misery if you listen to it."
"Not at all -- it bears the most gracious message in the world:  for
the rest, you are not my conscience-keeper, so don't make yourself
uneasy.  Here, come in, bonny wanderer!"
He said this as if he spoke to a vision, viewless to any eye but
his own; then, folding his arms, which he had half extended, on his
chest, he seemed to enclose in their embrace the invisible being.
"Now," he continued, again addressing me, "I have received the
pilgrim -- a disguised deity, as I verily believe.  Already it
has done me good:  my heart was a sort of charnel; it will now be
a shrine."
"To speak truth, sir, I don't understand you at all:  I cannot keep
up the conversation, because it has got out of my depth.  Only one
thing, I know:  you said you were not as good as you should like
to be, and that you regretted your own imperfection; -- one thing
I can comprehend:  you intimated that to have a sullied memory
was a perpetual bane.  It seems to me, that if you tried hard, you
would in time find it possible to become what you yourself would
approve; and that if from this day you began with resolution to
correct your thoughts and actions, you would in a few years have
laid up a new and stainless store of recollections, to which you
might revert with pleasure."
