
"Justly thought; rightly said, Miss Eyre; and, at this moment, I
am paving hell with energy."
"Sir?"
"I am laying down good intentions, which I believe durable as
flint.  Certainly, my associates and pursuits shall be other than
they have been."
"And better?"
"And better -- so much better as pure ore is than foul dross.  You
seem to doubt me; I don't doubt myself:  I know what my aim is,
what my motives are; and at this moment I pass a law, unalterable
as that of the Medes and Persians, that both are right."
"They cannot be, sir, if they require a new statute to legalise
them."
"They are, Miss Eyre, though they absolutely require a new statute:
unheard-of combinations of circumstances demand unheard-of rules."
"That sounds a dangerous maxim, sir; because one can see at once
that it is liable to abuse."
"Sententious sage!  so it is:  but I swear by my household gods
not to abuse it."
"You are human and fallible."
"I am:  so are you -- what then?"
"The human and fallible should not arrogate a power with which the
divine and perfect alone can be safely intrusted."
"What power?"
"That of saying of any strange, unsanctioned line of action, --
'Let it be right.'"
"'Let it be right' -- the very words:  you have pronounced them."
"MAY it be right then," I said, as I rose, deeming it useless to
continue a discourse which was all darkness to me; and, besides,
sensible that the character of my interlocutor was beyond my
penetration; at least, beyond its present reach; and feeling the
uncertainty, the vague sense of insecurity, which accompanies a
conviction of ignorance.
"Where are you going?"
"To put Adele to bed:  it is past her bedtime."
"You are afraid of me, because I talk like a Sphynx."
"Your language is enigmatical, sir:  but though I am bewildered,
I am certainly not afraid."
"You ARE afraid -- your self-love dreads a blunder."
"In that sense I do feel apprehensive -- I have no wish to talk
nonsense."
"If you did, it would be in such a grave, quiet manner, I should
mistake it for sense.  Do you never laugh, Miss Eyre?  Don't
trouble yourself to answer -- I see you laugh rarely; but you can
laugh very merrily:  believe me, you are not naturally austere,
any more than I am naturally vicious.  The Lowood constraint still
clings to you somewhat; controlling your features, muffling your
voice, and restricting your limbs; and you fear in the presence of
a man and a brother -- or father, or master, or what you will --
to smile too gaily, speak too freely, or move too quickly:  but,
in time, I think you will learn to be natural with me, as I find
it impossible to be conventional with you; and then your looks and
movements will have more vivacity and variety than they dare offer
now.  I see at intervals the glance of a curious sort of bird
through the close-set bars of a cage:  a vivid, restless, resolute
captive is there; were it but free, it would soar cloud-high.  You
are still bent on going?"
"It has struck nine, sir."
"Never mind, -- wait a minute:  Adele is not ready to go to bed
yet.  My position, Miss Eyre, with my back to the fire, and my face
to the room, favours observation.  While talking to you, I have
also occasionally watched Adele (I have my own reasons for thinking
her a curious study, -- reasons that I may, nay, that I shall,
impart to you some day).  She pulled out of her box, about ten
minutes ago, a little pink silk frock; rapture lit her face as she
unfolded it; coquetry runs in her blood, blends with her brains,
and seasons the marrow of her bones.  'Il faut que je l'essaie!'
cried she, 'et e l'instant meme!'  and she rushed out of the room.
She is now with Sophie, undergoing a robing process:  in a few minutes
she will re-enter; and I know what I shall see, -- a miniature of
Celine Varens, as she used to appear on the boards at the rising of
-- But never mind that.  However, my tenderest feelings are about
to receive a shock:  such is my presentiment; stay now, to see
whether it will be realised."
Ere long, Adele's little foot was heard tripping across the hall.
She entered, transformed as her guardian had predicted.  A dress
of rose-coloured satin, very short, and as full in the skirt as
it could be gathered, replaced the brown frock she had previously
worn; a wreath of rosebuds circled her forehead; her feet were
dressed in silk stockings and small white satin sandals.
"Est-ce que ma robe va bien?"  cried she, bounding forwards; "et
mes souliers?  et mes bas?  Tenez, je crois que je vais danser!"
And spreading out her dress, she chasseed across the room till,
having reached Mr. Rochester, she wheeled lightly round before
him on tip-toe, then dropped on one knee at his feet, exclaiming -
"Monsieur, je vous remercie mille fois de votre bonte;" then
rising, she added, "C'est comme cela que maman faisait, n'est-ce
pas, monsieur?"
"Pre-cise-ly!"  was the answer; "and, 'comme cela,' she charmed
my English gold out of my British breeches' pocket.  I have been
green, too, Miss Eyre, -- ay, grass green:  not a more vernal
tint freshens you now than once freshened me.  My Spring is gone,
however, but it has left me that French floweret on my hands, which,
in some moods, I would fain be rid of.  Not valuing now the root
whence it sprang; having found that it was of a sort which nothing
but gold dust could manure, I have but half a liking to the blossom,
especially when it looks so artificial as just now.  I keep it and
rear it rather on the Roman Catholic principle of expiating numerous
sins, great or small, by one good work.  I'll explain all this some
day.  Good-night."
CHAPTER XV
Mr. Rochester did, on a future occasion, explain it.  It was one
afternoon, when he chanced to meet me and Adele in the grounds:
and while she played with Pilot and her shuttlecock, he asked me
to walk up and down a long beech avenue within sight of her.
He then said that she was the daughter of a French opera-dancer,
Celine Varens, towards whom he had once cherished what he called
a "grande passion."  This passion Celine had professed to return
with even superior ardour.  He thought himself her idol, ugly as
he was:  he believed, as he said, that she preferred his "taille
d'athlete" to the elegance of the Apollo Belvidere.
"And, Miss Eyre, so much was I flattered by this preference of
the Gallic sylph for her British gnome, that I installed her in an
hotel; gave her a complete establishment of servants, a carriage,
cashmeres, diamonds, dentelles, &c.  In short, I began the process
of ruining myself in the received style, like any other spoony.  I
had not, it seems, the originality to chalk out a new road to shame
and destruction, but trode the old track with stupid exactness not
to deviate an inch from the beaten centre.  I had -- as I deserved
to have -- the fate of all other spoonies.  Happening to call one
evening when Celine did not expect me, I found her out; but it was
a warm night, and I was tired with strolling through Paris, so I
sat down in her boudoir; happy to breathe the air consecrated so
lately by her presence.  No, -- I exaggerate; I never thought there
was any consecrating virtue about her:  it was rather a sort of
pastille perfume she had left; a scent of musk and amber, than an
odour of sanctity.  I was just beginning to stifle with the fumes
of conservatory flowers and sprinkled essences, when I bethought
myself to open the window and step out on to the balcony.  It was
moonlight and gaslight besides, and very still and serene.  The
balcony was furnished with a chair or two; I sat down, and took
out a cigar, -- I will take one now, if you will excuse me."
Here ensued a pause, filled up by the producing and lighting
of a cigar; having placed it to his lips and breathed a trail
of Havannah incense on the freezing and sunless air, he went on -
"I liked bonbons too in those days, Miss Eyre, and I was croquant
-- (overlook the barbarism) -- croquant chocolate comfits, and
smoking alternately, watching meantime the equipages that rolled
along the fashionable streets towards the neighbouring opera-house,
when in an elegant close carriage drawn by a beautiful pair of
English horses, and distinctly seen in the brilliant city-night,
I recognised the 'voiture' I had given Celine.  She was returning:
of course my heart thumped with impatience against the iron rails
I leant upon.  The carriage stopped, as I had expected, at the
hotel door; my flame (that is the very word for an opera inamorata)
alighted:  though muffed in a cloak -- an unnecessary encumbrance,
by-the-bye, on so warm a June evening -- I knew her instantly by
her little foot, seen peeping from the skirt of her dress, as she
skipped from the carriage-step.  Bending over the balcony, I was
about to murmur 'Mon ange' -- in a tone, of course, which should
be audible to the ear of love alone -- when a figure jumped from
the carriage after her; cloaked also; but that was a spurred heel
which had rung on the pavement, and that was a hatted head which
now passed under the arched porte cochere of the hotel.
"You never felt jealousy, did you, Miss Eyre?  Of course not:  I
need not ask you; because you never felt love.  You have both
sentiments yet to experience:  your soul sleeps; the shock is yet
to be given which shall waken it.  You think all existence lapses
in as quiet a flow as that in which your youth has hitherto slid
away.  Floating on with closed eyes and muffled ears, you neither
see the rocks bristling not far off in the bed of the flood, nor
hear the breakers boil at their base.  But I tell you -- and you
may mark my words -- you will come some day to a craggy pass in the
channel, where the whole of life's stream will be broken up into
whirl and tumult, foam and noise:  either you will be dashed to
atoms on crag points, or lifted up and borne on by some master-wave
into a calmer current -- as I am now.
"I like this day; I like that sky of steel; I like the sternness
and stillness of the world under this frost.  I like Thornfield,
its antiquity, its retirement, its old crow-trees and thorn-trees,
its grey facade, and lines of dark windows reflecting that metal
welkin:  and yet how long have I abhorred the very thought of it,
shunned it like a great plague-house?  How I do still abhor -"
He ground his teeth and was silent:  he arrested his step and struck
his boot against the hard ground.  Some hated thought seemed to
have him in its grip, and to hold him so tightly that he could not
advance.
We were ascending the avenue when he thus paused; the hall was before
us.  Lifting his eye to its battlements, he cast over them a glare
such as I never saw before or since.  Pain, shame, ire, impatience,
disgust, detestation, seemed momentarily to hold a quivering conflict
in the large pupil dilating under his ebon eyebrow.  Wild was the
wrestle which should be paramount; but another feeling rose and
triumphed:  something hard and cynical:  self-willed and resolute:
it settled his passion and petrified his countenance:  he went on -
"During the moment I was silent, Miss Eyre, I was arranging a point
with my destiny.  She stood there, by that beech-trunk -- a hag
like one of those who appeared to Macbeth on the heath of Forres.
'You like Thornfield?'  she said, lifting her finger; and then she
wrote in the air a memento, which ran in lurid hieroglyphics all
along the house-front, between the upper and lower row of windows,
'Like it if you can!  Like it if you dare!'
"'I will like it,' said I; 'I dare like it;' and" (he subjoined
moodily) "I will keep my word; I will break obstacles to happiness,
to goodness -- yes, goodness.  I wish to be a better man than I
have been, than I am; as Job's leviathan broke the spear, the dart,
and the habergeon, hindrances which others count as iron and brass,
I will esteem but straw and rotten wood."
Adele here ran before him with her shuttlecock.  "Away!"  he cried
harshly; "keep at a distance, child; or go in to Sophie!"  Continuing
then to pursue his walk in silence, I ventured to recall
him to the point whence he had abruptly diverged -
"Did you leave the balcony, sir," I asked, "when Mdlle. Varens
entered?"
I almost expected a rebuff for this hardly well-timed question,
but, on the contrary, waking out of his scowling abstraction, he
turned his eyes towards me, and the shade seemed to clear off his
brow.  "Oh, I had forgotten Celine!  Well, to resume.  When I saw
my charmer thus come in accompanied by a cavalier, I seemed to
hear a hiss, and the green snake of jealousy, rising on undulating
coils from the moonlit balcony, glided within my waistcoat, and ate
its way in two minutes to my heart's core.  Strange!"  he exclaimed,
suddenly starting again from the point.  "Strange that I should
choose you for the confidant of all this, young lady; passing
strange that you should listen to me quietly, as if it were the most
usual thing in the world for a man like me to tell stories of his
opera-mistresses to a quaint, inexperienced girl like you!  But the
last singularity explains the first, as I intimated once before:
you, with your gravity, considerateness, and caution were made to
be the recipient of secrets.  Besides, I know what sort of a mind
I have placed in communication with my own:  I know it is one not
liable to take infection:  it is a peculiar mind:  it is a unique
one.  Happily I do not mean to harm it:  but, if I did, it would
not take harm from me.  The more you and I converse, the better;
for while I cannot blight you, you may refresh me."  After
this digression he proceeded -
"I remained in the balcony.  'They will come to her boudoir, no
doubt,' thought I: 'let me prepare an ambush.'  So putting my hand
in through the open window, I drew the curtain over it, leaving only
an opening through which I could take observations; then I closed
the casement, all but a chink just wide enough to furnish an outlet
to lovers' whispered vows:  then I stole back to my chair; and as
I resumed it the pair came in.  My eye was quickly at the aperture.
Celine's chamber-maid entered, lit a lamp, left it on the table,
and withdrew.  The couple were thus revealed to me clearly:  both
removed their cloaks, and there was 'the Varens,' shining in satin
and jewels, -- my gifts of course, -- and there was her companion
in an officer's uniform; and I knew him for a young roue of a
vicomte -- a brainless and vicious youth whom I had sometimes met
in society, and had never thought of hating because I despised him
so absolutely.  On recognising him, the fang of the snake Jealousy
was instantly broken; because at the same moment my love for Celine
sank under an extinguisher.  A woman who could betray me for such
a rival was not worth contending for; she deserved only scorn;
less, however, than I, who had been her dupe.
"They began to talk; their conversation eased me completely:  frivolous,
mercenary, heartless, and senseless, it was rather calculated to
weary than enrage a listener.  A card of mine lay on the table;
this being perceived, brought my name under discussion.  Neither
of them possessed energy or wit to belabour me soundly, but they
insulted me as coarsely as they could in their little way:  especially
Celine, who even waxed rather brilliant on my personal defects --
deformities she termed them.  Now it had been her custom to launch
out into fervent admiration of what she called my 'beaute male:'
wherein she differed diametrically from you, who told me point-blank,
at the second interview, that you did not think me handsome.  The
contrast struck me at the time and -- "
