
Adele here came running up again.
"Monsieur, John has just been to say that your agent has called
and wishes to see you."
"Ah!  in that case I must abridge.  Opening the window, I walked
in upon them; liberated Celine from my protection; gave her notice
to vacate her hotel; offered her a purse for immediate exigencies;
disregarded screams, hysterics, prayers, protestations, convulsions;
made an appointment with the vicomte for a meeting at the Bois de
Boulogne.  Next morning I had the pleasure of encountering him; left
a bullet in one of his poor etiolated arms, feeble as the wing of
a chicken in the pip, and then thought I had done with the whole
crew.  But unluckily the Varens, six months before, had given me
this filette Adele, who, she affirmed, was my daughter; and perhaps
she may be, though I see no proofs of such grim paternity written
in her countenance:  Pilot is more like me than she.  Some years
after I had broken with the mother, she abandoned her child, and
ran away to Italy with a musician or singer.  I acknowledged no
natural claim on Adele's part to be supported by me, nor do I now
acknowledge any, for I am not her father; but hearing that she was
quite destitute, I e'en took the poor thing out of the slime and
mud of Paris, and transplanted it here, to grow up clean in the
wholesome soil of an English country garden.  Mrs. Fairfax found
you to train it; but now you know that it is the illegitimate
offspring of a French opera- girl, you will perhaps think differently
of your post and protegee:  you will be coming to me some day with
notice that you have found another place -- that you beg me to look
out for a new governess, &c. -- Eh?"
"No:  Adele is not answerable for either her mother's faults or
yours:  I have a regard for her; and now that I know she is, in a
sense, parentless -- forsaken by her mother and disowned by you, sir
-- I shall cling closer to her than before.  How could I possibly
prefer the spoilt pet of a wealthy family, who would hate her governess
as a nuisance, to a lonely little orphan, who leans towards her as
a friend?"
"Oh, that is the light in which you view it!  Well, I must go in
now; and you too:  it darkens."
But I stayed out a few minutes longer with Adele and Pilot -- ran
a race with her, and played a game of battledore and shuttlecock.
When we went in, and I had removed her bonnet and coat, I took her
on my knee; kept her there an hour, allowing her to prattle as she
liked:  not rebuking even some little freedoms and trivialities into
which she was apt to stray when much noticed, and which betrayed
in her a superficiality of character, inherited probably from her
mother, hardly congenial to an English mind.  Still she had her
merits; and I was disposed to appreciate all that was good in her
to the utmost.  I sought in her countenance and features a likeness
to Mr. Rochester, but found none:  no trait, no turn of expression
announced relationship.  It was a pity:  if she could but have been
proved to resemble him, he would have thought more of her.
It was not till after I had withdrawn to my own chamber for the
night, that I steadily reviewed the tale Mr. Rochester had told me.
As he had said, there was probably nothing at all extraordinary
in the substance of the narrative itself:  a wealthy Englishman's
passion for a French dancer, and her treachery to him, were everyday
matters enough, no doubt, in society; but there was something decidedly
strange in the paroxysm of emotion which had suddenly seized him
when he was in the act of expressing the present contentment of
his mood, and his newly revived pleasure in the old hall and its
environs.  I meditated wonderingly on this incident; but gradually
quitting it, as I found it for the present inexplicable, I turned to
the consideration of my master's manner to myself.  The confidence
he had thought fit to repose in me seemed a tribute to my discretion:  I
regarded and accepted it as such.  His deportment had now for some
weeks been more uniform towards me than at the first.  I never seemed
in his way; he did not take fits of chilling hauteur:  when he met
me unexpectedly, the encounter seemed welcome; he had always a word
and sometimes a smile for me:  when summoned by formal invitation
to his presence, I was honoured by a cordiality of reception that
made me feel I really possessed the power to amuse him, and that
these evening conferences were sought as much for his pleasure as
for my benefit.
I, indeed, talked comparatively little, but I heard him talk with
relish.  It was his nature to be communicative; he liked to open
to a mind unacquainted with the world glimpses of its scenes and
ways (I do not mean its corrupt scenes and wicked ways, but such
as derived their interest from the great scale on which they were
acted, the strange novelty by which they were characterised);
and I had a keen delight in receiving the new ideas he offered,
in imagining the new pictures he portrayed, and following him in
thought through the new regions he disclosed, never startled or
troubled by one noxious allusion.
The ease of his manner freed me from painful restraint:  the friendly
frankness, as correct as cordial, with which he treated me, drew
me to him.  I felt at times as if he were my relation rather than
my master:  yet he was imperious sometimes still; but I did not mind
that; I saw it was his way.  So happy, so gratified did I become
with this new interest added to life, that I ceased to pine after
kindred:  my thin crescent-destiny seemed to enlarge; the blanks
of existence were filled up; my bodily health improved; I gathered
flesh and strength.
And was Mr. Rochester now ugly in my eyes?  No, reader:  gratitude,
and many associations, all pleasurable and genial, made his face
the object I best liked to see; his presence in a room was more
cheering than the brightest fire.  Yet I had not forgotten his faults;
indeed, I could not, for he brought them frequently before me.  He
was proud, sardonic, harsh to inferiority of every description:
in my secret soul I knew that his great kindness to me was balanced
by unjust severity to many others.  He was moody, too; unaccountably
so; I more than once, when sent for to read to him, found him sitting
in his library alone, with his head bent on his folded arms; and,
when he looked up, a morose, almost a malignant, scowl blackened
his features.  But I believed that his moodiness, his harshness,
and his former faults of morality (I say FORMER, for now he seemed
corrected of them) had their source in some cruel cross of fate.
I believed he was naturally a man of better tendencies, higher
principles, and purer tastes than such as circumstances had developed,
education instilled, or destiny encouraged.  I thought there were
excellent materials in him; though for the present they hung together
somewhat spoiled and tangled.  I cannot deny that I grieved for his
grief, whatever that was, and would have given much to assuage it.
Though I had now extinguished my candle and was laid down in bed,
I could not sleep for thinking of his look when he paused in the
avenue, and told how his destiny had risen up before him, and dared
him to be happy at Thornfield.
"Why not?"  I asked myself.  "What alienates him from the house?
Will he leave it again soon?  Mrs. Fairfax said he seldom stayed
here longer than a fortnight at a time; and he has now been resident
eight weeks.  If he does go, the change will be doleful.  Suppose
he should be absent spring, summer, and autumn:  how joyless sunshine
and fine days will seem!"
I hardly know whether I had slept or not after this musing; at any
rate, I started wide awake on hearing a vague murmur, peculiar and
lugubrious, which sounded, I thought, just above me.  I wished I
had kept my candle burning:  the night was drearily dark; my spirits
were depressed.  I rose and sat up in bed, listening.  The sound
was hushed.
I tried again to sleep; but my heart beat anxiously:  my inward
tranquillity was broken.  The clock, far down in the hall, struck two.
Just then it seemed my chamber-door was touched; as if fingers had
swept the panels in groping a way along the dark gallery outside.
I said, "Who is there?"  Nothing answered.  I was chilled with
fear.
All at once I remembered that it might be Pilot, who, when the
kitchen-door chanced to be left open, not unfrequently found his
way up to the threshold of Mr. Rochester's chamber:  I had seen him
lying there myself in the mornings.  The idea calmed me somewhat:
I lay down.  Silence composes the nerves; and as an unbroken hush
now reigned again through the whole house, I began to feel the return
of slumber.  But it was not fated that I should sleep that night.
A dream had scarcely approached my ear, when it fled affrighted,
scared by a marrow-freezing incident enough.
This was a demoniac laugh -- low, suppressed, and deep -- uttered,
as it seemed, at the very keyhole of my chamber door.  The head of
my bed was near the door, and I thought at first the goblin-laugher
stood at my bedside -- or rather, crouched by my pillow:  but I
rose, looked round, and could see nothing; while, as I still gazed,
the unnatural sound was reiterated:  and I knew it came from behind
the panels.  My first impulse was to rise and fasten the bolt; my
next, again to cry out, "Who is there?"
Something gurgled and moaned.  Ere long, steps retreated up the
gallery towards the third-storey staircase:  a door had lately been
made to shut in that staircase; I heard it open and close, and all
was still.
"Was that Grace Poole?  and is she possessed with a devil?"  thought
I. Impossible now to remain longer by myself:  I must go to Mrs.
Fairfax.  I hurried on my frock and a shawl; I withdrew the bolt
and opened the door with a trembling hand.  There was a candle
burning just outside, and on the matting in the gallery.  I was
surprised at this circumstance:  but still more was I amazed to
perceive the air quite dim, as if filled with smoke; and, while
looking to the right hand and left, to find whence these blue
wreaths issued, I became further aware of a strong smell of burning.
Something creaked:  it was a door ajar; and that door was Mr.
Rochester's, and the smoke rushed in a cloud from thence.  I thought
no more of Mrs. Fairfax; I thought no more of Grace Poole, or the
laugh:  in an instant, I was within the chamber.  Tongues of flame
darted round the bed:  the curtains were on fire.  In the midst of
blaze and vapour, Mr. Rochester lay stretched motionless, in deep
sleep.
"Wake!  wake!"  I cried.  I shook him, but he only murmured and
turned:  the smoke had stupefied him.  Not a moment could be lost:
the very sheets were kindling, I rushed to his basin and ewer;
fortunately, one was wide and the other deep, and both were filled
with water.  I heaved them up, deluged the bed and its occupant,
flew back to my own room, brought my own water-jug, baptized the
couch afresh, and, by God's aid, succeeded in extinguishing the
flames which were devouring it.
The hiss of the quenched element, the breakage of a pitcher which
I flung from my hand when I had emptied it, and, above all, the
splash of the shower-bath I had liberally bestowed, roused Mr.
Rochester at last.  Though it was now dark, I knew he was awake;
because I heard him fulminating strange anathemas at finding himself
lying in a pool of water.
"Is there a flood?"  he cried.
"No, sir," I answered; "but there has been a fire:  get up, do;
you are quenched now; I will fetch you a candle."
"In the name of all the elves in Christendom, is that Jane Eyre?"
he demanded.  "What have you done with me, witch, sorceress?  Who
is in the room besides you?  Have you plotted to drown me?"
"I will fetch you a candle, sir; and, in Heaven's name, get up.
Somebody has plotted something:  you cannot too soon find out who
and what it is."
"There!  I am up now; but at your peril you fetch a candle yet:
wait two minutes till I get into some dry garments, if any dry
there be -- yes, here is my dressing-gown.  Now run!"
I did run; I brought the candle which still remained in the
gallery.  He took it from my hand, held it up, and surveyed the
bed, all blackened and scorched, the sheets drenched, the carpet
round swimming in water.
"What is it?  and who did it?"  he asked.  I briefly related to him
what had transpired:  the strange laugh I had heard in the gallery:
the step ascending to the third storey; the smoke, -- the smell of
fire which had conducted me to his room; in what state I had found
matters there, and how I had deluged him with all the water I could
lay hands on.
He listened very gravely; his face, as I went on, expressed more
concern than astonishment; he did not immediately speak when I had
concluded.
"Shall I call Mrs. Fairfax?"  I asked.
"Mrs. Fairfax?  No; what the deuce would you call her for?  What
can she do?  Let her sleep unmolested."
"Then I will fetch Leah, and wake John and his wife."
"Not at all:  just be still.  You have a shawl on.  If you are not
warm enough, you may take my cloak yonder; wrap it about you, and
sit down in the arm-chair:  there, -- I will put it on.  Now place
your feet on the stool, to keep them out of the wet.  I am going
to leave you a few minutes.  I shall take the candle.  Remain where
you are till I return; be as still as a mouse.  I must pay a visit
to the second storey.  Don't move, remember, or call any one."
He went:  I watched the light withdraw.  He passed up the gallery
very softly, unclosed the staircase door with as little noise as
possible, shut it after him, and the last ray vanished.  I was left
in total darkness.  I listened for some noise, but heard nothing.
A very long time elapsed.  I grew weary:  it was cold, in spite of
the cloak; and then I did not see the use of staying, as I was not
to rouse the house.  I was on the point of risking Mr. Rochester's
displeasure by disobeying his orders, when the light once more
gleamed dimly on the gallery wall, and I heard his unshod feet
tread the matting.  "I hope it is he," thought I, "and not something
worse."
He re-entered, pale and very gloomy.  "I have found it all out,"
said he, setting his candle down on the washstand; "it is as I
thought."
"How, sir?"
He made no reply, but stood with his arms folded, looking on the
ground.  At the end of a few minutes he inquired in rather
a peculiar tone -
"I forget whether you said you saw anything when you opened your
chamber door."
"No, sir, only the candlestick on the ground."
"But you heard an odd laugh?  You have heard that laugh before, I
should think, or something like it?"
"Yes, sir:  there is a woman who sews here, called Grace Poole, --
she laughs in that way.  She is a singular person."
"Just so.  Grace Poole -- you have guessed it.  She is, as you say,
singular -- very.  Well, I shall reflect on the subject.  Meantime,
I am glad that you are the only person, besides myself, acquainted
with the precise details of to-night's incident.  You are no talking
fool:  say nothing about it.  I will account for this state of
affairs" (pointing to the bed):  "and now return to your own room.
I shall do very well on the sofa in the library for the rest of the
night.  It is near four:- in two hours the servants will be up."
"Good-night, then, sir," said I, departing.
He seemed surprised -- very inconsistently so, as he had just told
me to go.
"What!"  he exclaimed, "are you quitting me already, and in that
way?"
"You said I might go, sir."
"But not without taking leave; not without a word or two of
acknowledgment and good-will:  not, in short, in that brief, dry
fashion.  Why, you have saved my life! -- snatched me from a horrible
and excruciating death!  and you walk past me as if we were mutual
strangers!  At least shake hands."
He held out his hand; I gave him mine:  he took it first in one,
them in both his own.
"You have saved my life:  I have a pleasure in owing you so immense a
debt.  I cannot say more.  Nothing else that has being would have
been tolerable to me in the character of creditor for such an
obligation:  but you:  it is different; -- I feel your benefits no
burden, Jane."
He paused; gazed at me:  words almost visible trembled on his lips,-
-but his voice was checked.
