
"Good-night again, sir.  There is no debt, benefit, burden,
obligation, in the case."
"I knew," he continued, "you would do me good in some way, at some
time; -- I saw it in your eyes when I first beheld you:  their
expression and smile did not" -- (again he stopped) -- "did not"
(he proceeded hastily) "strike delight to my very inmost heart so
for nothing.  People talk of natural sympathies; I have heard of
good genii:  there are grains of truth in the wildest fable.  My
cherished preserver, goodnight!"
Strange energy was in his voice, strange fire in his look.
"I am glad I happened to be awake," I said:  and then I was going.
"What!  you WILL go?"
"I am cold, sir."
"Cold?  Yes, -- and standing in a pool!  Go, then, Jane; go!"  But
he still retained my hand, and I could not free it.  I bethought
myself of an expedient.
"I think I hear Mrs. Fairfax move, sir," said I.
"Well, leave me:"  he relaxed his fingers, and I was gone.
I regained my couch, but never thought of sleep.  Till morning
dawned I was tossed on a buoyant but unquiet sea, where billows
of trouble rolled under surges of joy.  I thought sometimes I saw
beyond its wild waters a shore, sweet as the hills of Beulah; and
now and then a freshening gale, wakened by hope, bore my spirit
triumphantly towards the bourne:  but I could not reach it, even
in fancy -- a counteracting breeze blew off land, and continually
drove me back.  Sense would resist delirium:  judgment would warn
passion.  Too feverish to rest, I rose as soon as day dawned.
CHAPTER XVI
I both wished and feared to see Mr. Rochester on the day which
followed this sleepless night:  I wanted to hear his voice again,
yet feared to meet his eye.  During the early part of the morning,
I momentarily expected his coming; he was not in the frequent habit
of entering the schoolroom, but he did step in for a few minutes
sometimes, and I had the impression that he was sure to visit it
that day.
But the morning passed just as usual:  nothing happened to interrupt
the quiet course of Adele's studies; only soon after breakfast, I
heard some bustle in the neighbourhood of Mr. Rochester's chamber,
Mrs. Fairfax's voice, and Leah's, and the cook's -- that is, John's
wife -- and even John's own gruff tones.  There were exclamations
of "What a mercy master was not burnt in his bed!"  "It is always
dangerous to keep a candle lit at night."  "How providential that
he had presence of mind to think of the water-jug!"  "I wonder
he waked nobody!"  "It is to be hoped he will not take cold with
sleeping on the library sofa," &c.
To much confabulation succeeded a sound of scrubbing and setting to
rights; and when I passed the room, in going downstairs to dinner,
I saw through the open door that all was again restored to complete
order; only the bed was stripped of its hangings.  Leah stood up
in the window-seat, rubbing the panes of glass dimmed with smoke.
I was about to address her, for I wished to know what account had
been given of the affair:  but, on advancing, I saw a second person
in the chamber -- a woman sitting on a chair by the bedside, and
sewing rings to new curtains.  That woman was no other than Grace
Poole.
There she sat, staid and taciturn-looking, as usual, in her brown
stuff gown, her check apron, white handkerchief, and cap.  She was
intent on her work, in which her whole thoughts seemed absorbed:
on her hard forehead, and in her commonplace features, was nothing
either of the paleness or desperation one would have expected to
see marking the countenance of a woman who had attempted murder, and
whose intended victim had followed her last night to her lair, and
(as I believed), charged her with the crime she wished to perpetrate.
I was amazed -- confounded.  She looked up, while I still gazed at
her:  no start, no increase or failure of colour betrayed emotion,
consciousness of guilt, or fear of detection.  She said "Good
morning, Miss," in her usual phlegmatic and brief manner; and taking
up another ring and more tape, went on with her sewing.
"I will put her to some test," thought I: "such absolute impenetrability
is past comprehension."
"Good morning, Grace," I said.  "Has anything happened here?  I
thought I heard the servants all talking together a while ago."
"Only master had been reading in his bed last night; he fell asleep
with his candle lit, and the curtains got on fire; but, fortunately,
he awoke before the bed-clothes or the wood-work caught, and
contrived to quench the flames with the water in the ewer."
"A strange affair!"  I said, in a low voice:  then, looking at her
fixedly -- "Did Mr. Rochester wake nobody?  Did no one hear him
move?"
She again raised her eyes to me, and this time there was something
of consciousness in their expression.  She seemed to examine
me warily; then she answered -
"The servants sleep so far off, you know, Miss, they would not be
likely to hear.  Mrs. Fairfax's room and yours are the nearest to
master's; but Mrs. Fairfax said she heard nothing:  when people
get elderly, they often sleep heavy."  She paused, and then added,
with a sort of assumed indifference, but still in a marked and
significant tone -- "But you are young, Miss; and I should say a
light sleeper:  perhaps you may have heard a noise?"
"I did," said I, dropping my voice, so that Leah, who was still
polishing the panes, could not hear me, "and at first I thought
it was Pilot:  but Pilot cannot laugh; and I am certain I heard a
laugh, and a strange one."
She took a new needleful of thread, waxed it carefully, threaded her
needle with a steady hand, and then observed, with perfect composure -
"It is hardly likely master would laugh, I should think, Miss, when
he was in such danger:  You must have been dreaming."
"I was not dreaming," I said, with some warmth, for her brazen
coolness provoked me.  Again she looked at me; and with the same
scrutinising and conscious eye.
"Have you told master that you heard a laugh?"  she inquired.
"I have not had the opportunity of speaking to him this morning."
"You did not think of opening your door and looking out into the
gallery?"  she further asked.
She appeared to be cross-questioning me, attempting to draw from
me information unawares.  The idea struck me that if she discovered
I knew or suspected her guilt, she would be playing of some of her
malignant pranks on me; I thought it advisable to be on my guard.
"On the contrary," said I, "I bolted my door."
"Then you are not in the habit of bolting your door every night
before you get into bed?"
"Fiend!  she wants to know my habits, that she may lay her plans
accordingly!"  Indignation again prevailed over prudence:  I replied
sharply, "Hitherto I have often omitted to fasten the bolt:  I did
not think it necessary.  I was not aware any danger or annoyance
was to be dreaded at Thornfield Hall:  but in future" (and I laid
marked stress on the words) "I shall take good care to make all
secure before I venture to lie down."
"It will be wise so to do," was her answer:  "this neighbourhood
is as quiet as any I know, and I never heard of the hall being
attempted by robbers since it was a house; though there are hundreds
of pounds' worth of plate in the plate-closet, as is well known.
And you see, for such a large house, there are very few servants,
because master has never lived here much; and when he does come,
being a bachelor, he needs little waiting on:  but I always think
it best to err on the safe side; a door is soon fastened, and it
is as well to have a drawn bolt between one and any mischief that
may be about.  A deal of people, Miss, are for trusting all to
Providence; but I say Providence will not dispense with the means,
though He often blesses them when they are used discreetly."  And
here she closed her harangue:  a long one for her, and uttered with
the demureness of a Quakeress.
I still stood absolutely dumfoundered at what appeared to me her
miraculous self-possession and most inscrutable hypocrisy, when
the cook entered.
"Mrs. Poole," said she, addressing Grace, "the servants' dinner
will soon be ready:  will you come down?"
"No; just put my pint of porter and bit of pudding on a tray, and
I'll carry it upstairs."
"You'll have some meat?"
"Just a morsel, and a taste of cheese, that's all."
"And the sago?"
"Never mind it at present:  I shall be coming down before teatime:
I'll make it myself."
The cook here turned to me, saying that Mrs. Fairfax was waiting
for me:  so I departed.
I hardly heard Mrs. Fairfax's account of the curtain conflagration
during dinner, so much was I occupied in puzzling my brains over the
enigmatical character of Grace Poole, and still more in pondering
the problem of her position at Thornfield and questioning why
she had not been given into custody that morning, or, at the very
least, dismissed from her master's service.  He had almost as much
as declared his conviction of her criminality last night:  what
mysterious cause withheld him from accusing her?  Why had he
enjoined me, too, to secrecy?  It was strange:  a bold, vindictive,
and haughty gentleman seemed somehow in the power of one of the
meanest of his dependants; so much in her power, that even when
she lifted her hand against his life, he dared not openly charge
her with the attempt, much less punish her for it.
Had Grace been young and handsome, I should have been tempted to
think that tenderer feelings than prudence or fear influenced Mr.
Rochester in her behalf; but, hard-favoured and matronly as she
was, the idea could not be admitted.  "Yet," I reflected, "she has
been young once; her youth would be contemporary with her master's:
Mrs. Fairfax told me once, she had lived here many years.  I don't
think she can ever have been pretty; but, for aught I know, she
may possess originality and strength of character to compensate
for the want of personal advantages.  Mr. Rochester is an amateur
of the decided and eccentric:  Grace is eccentric at least.  What
if a former caprice (a freak very possible to a nature so sudden and
headstrong as his) has delivered him into her power, and she now
exercises over his actions a secret influence, the result of his own
indiscretion, which he cannot shake off, and dare not disregard?"
But, having reached this point of conjecture, Mrs. Poole's square,
flat figure, and uncomely, dry, even coarse face, recurred so
distinctly to my mind's eye, that I thought, "No; impossible!  my
supposition cannot be correct.  Yet," suggested the secret voice
which talks to us in our own hearts, "you are not beautiful either,
and perhaps Mr. Rochester approves you:  at any rate, you have often
felt as if he did; and last night -- remember his words; remember
his look; remember his voice!"
I well remembered all; language, glance, and tone seemed at the
moment vividly renewed.  I was now in the schoolroom; Adele was
drawing; I bent over her and directed her pencil.  She looked up
with a sort of start.
"Qu' avez-vous, mademoiselle?"  said she.  "Vos doigts tremblent
comme la feuille, et vos joues sont rouges:  mais, rouges comme
des cerises!"
"I am hot, Adele, with stooping!"  She went on sketching; I went
on thinking.
I hastened to drive from my mind the hateful notion I had been
conceiving respecting Grace Poole; it disgusted me.  I compared
myself with her, and found we were different.  Bessie Leaven had
said I was quite a lady; and she spoke truth -- I was a lady.  And
now I looked much better than I did when Bessie saw me; I had more
colour and more flesh, more life, more vivacity, because I had
brighter hopes and keener enjoyments.
