
"Evening approaches," said I, as I looked towards the window.  "I
have never heard Mr. Rochester's voice or step in the house to-day;
but surely I shall see him before night:  I feared the meeting in
the morning; now I desire it, because expectation has been so long
baffled that it is grown impatient."
When dusk actually closed, and when Adele left me to go and play in
the nursery with Sophie, I did most keenly desire it.  I listened
for the bell to ring below; I listened for Leah coming up with
a message; I fancied sometimes I heard Mr. Rochester's own tread,
and I turned to the door, expecting it to open and admit him.
The door remained shut; darkness only came in through the window.
Still it was not late; he often sent for me at seven and eight
o'clock, and it was yet but six.  Surely I should not be wholly
disappointed to- night, when I had so many things to say to him!  I
wanted again to introduce the subject of Grace Poole, and to hear
what he would answer; I wanted to ask him plainly if he really
believed it was she who had made last night's hideous attempt; and
if so, why he kept her wickedness a secret.  It little mattered
whether my curiosity irritated him; I knew the pleasure of vexing
and soothing him by turns; it was one I chiefly delighted in, and
a sure instinct always prevented me from going too far; beyond
the verge of provocation I never ventured; on the extreme brink I
liked well to try my skill.  Retaining every minute form of respect,
every propriety of my station, I could still meet him in argument
without fear or uneasy restraint; this suited both him and me.
A tread creaked on the stairs at last.  Leah made her appearance;
but it was only to intimate that tea was ready in Mrs. Fairfax's
room.  Thither I repaired, glad at least to go downstairs; for that
brought me, I imagined, nearer to Mr. Rochester's presence.
"You must want your tea," said the good lady, as I joined her;
"you ate so little at dinner.  I am afraid," she continued, "you
are not well to-day:  you look flushed and feverish."
"Oh, quite well!  I never felt better."
"Then you must prove it by evincing a good appetite; will you fill
the teapot while I knit off this needle?"  Having completed her
task, she rose to draw down the blind, which she had hitherto kept
up, by way, I suppose, of making the most of daylight, though dusk
was now fast deepening into total obscurity.
"It is fair to-night," said she, as she looked through the panes,
"though not starlight; Mr. Rochester has, on the whole, had a
favourable day for his journey."
"Journey! -- Is Mr. Rochester gone anywhere?  I did not know he
was out."
"Oh, he set off the moment he had breakfasted!  He is gone to the
Leas, Mr. Eshton's place, ten miles on the other side Millcote.  I
believe there is quite a party assembled there; Lord Ingram, Sir
George Lynn, Colonel Dent, and others."
"Do you expect him back to-night?"
"No -- nor to-morrow either; I should think he is very likely to stay
a week or more:  when these fine, fashionable people get together,
they are so surrounded by elegance and gaiety, so well provided with
all that can please and entertain, they are in no hurry to separate.
Gentlemen especially are often in request on such occasions; and Mr.
Rochester is so talented and so lively in society, that I believe he
is a general favourite:  the ladies are very fond of him; though
you would not think his appearance calculated to recommend him
particularly in their eyes:  but I suppose his acquirements and
abilities, perhaps his wealth and good blood, make amends for any
little fault of look."
"Are there ladies at the Leas?"
"There are Mrs. Eshton and her three daughters -- very elegant young
ladies indeed; and there are the Honourable Blanche and Mary Ingram,
most beautiful women, I suppose:  indeed I have seen Blanche, six
or seven years since, when she was a girl of eighteen.  She came
here to a Christmas ball and party Mr. Rochester gave.  You should
have seen the dining-room that day -- how richly it was decorated,
how brilliantly lit up!  I should think there were fifty ladies
and gentlemen present -- all of the first county families; and Miss
Ingram was considered the belle of the evening."
"You saw her, you say, Mrs. Fairfax:  what was she like?"
"Yes, I saw her.  The dining-room doors were thrown open; and, as
it was Christmas-time, the servants were allowed to assemble in
the hall, to hear some of the ladies sing and play.  Mr. Rochester
would have me to come in, and I sat down in a quiet corner and
watched them.  I never saw a more splendid scene:  the ladies were
magnificently dressed; most of them -- at least most of the younger
ones -- looked handsome; but Miss Ingram was certainly the queen."
"And what was she like?"
"Tall, fine bust, sloping shoulders; long, graceful neck:  olive
complexion, dark and clear; noble features; eyes rather like Mr.
Rochester's:  large and black, and as brilliant as her jewels.  And
then she had such a fine head of hair; raven-black and so becomingly
arranged:  a crown of thick plaits behind, and in front the longest,
the glossiest curls I ever saw.  She was dressed in pure white; an
amber-coloured scarf was passed over her shoulder and across her
breast, tied at the side, and descending in long, fringed ends
below her knee.  She wore an amber-coloured flower, too, in her
hair:  it contrasted well with the jetty mass of her curls."
"She was greatly admired, of course?"
"Yes, indeed:  and not only for her beauty, but for her accomplishments.
She was one of the ladies who sang:  a gentleman accompanied her
on the piano.  She and Mr. Rochester sang a duet."
"Mr. Rochester?  I was not aware he could sing."
"Oh!  he has a fine bass voice, and an excellent taste for music."
"And Miss Ingram:  what sort of a voice had she?"
"A very rich and powerful one:  she sang delightfully; it was a treat
to listen to her; -- and she played afterwards.  I am no judge of
music, but Mr. Rochester is; and I heard him say her execution was
remarkably good."
"And this beautiful and accomplished lady, she is not yet married?"
"It appears not:  I fancy neither she nor her sister have very
large fortunes.  Old Lord Ingram's estates were chiefly entailed,
and the eldest son came in for everything almost."
"But I wonder no wealthy nobleman or gentleman has taken a fancy
to her:  Mr. Rochester, for instance.  He is rich, is he not?"
"Oh!  yes.  But you see there is a considerable difference in age:
Mr. Rochester is nearly forty; she is but twenty-five."
"What of that?  More unequal matches are made every day."
"True:  yet I should scarcely fancy Mr. Rochester would entertain
an idea of the sort.  But you eat nothing:  you have scarcely tasted
since you began tea."
"No:  I am too thirsty to eat.  Will you let me have another cup?"
I was about again to revert to the probability of a union between
Mr. Rochester and the beautiful Blanche; but Adele came in, and
the conversation was turned into another channel.
When once more alone, I reviewed the information I had got; looked
into my heart, examined its thoughts and feelings, and endeavoured
to bring back with a strict hand such as had been straying through
imagination's boundless and trackless waste, into the safe fold of
common sense.
Arraigned at my own bar, Memory having given her evidence of the
hopes, wishes, sentiments I had been cherishing since last night
-- of the general state of mind in which I had indulged for nearly
a fortnight past; Reason having come forward and told, in her own
quiet way a plain, unvarnished tale, showing how I had rejected the
real, and rabidly devoured the ideal; -- I pronounced judgment to
this effect:-
That a greater fool than Jane Eyre had never breathed the breath
of life; that a more fantastic idiot had never surfeited herself
on sweet lies, and swallowed poison as if it were nectar.
"YOU," I said, "a favourite with Mr. Rochester?  YOU gifted with the
power of pleasing him?  YOU of importance to him in any way?  Go!
your folly sickens me.  And you have derived pleasure from occasional
tokens of preference -- equivocal tokens shown by a gentleman of
family and a man of the world to a dependent and a novice.  How
dared you?  Poor stupid dupe! -- Could not even self-interest make
you wiser?  You repeated to yourself this morning the brief scene
of last night? -- Cover your face and be ashamed!  He said something
in praise of your eyes, did he?  Blind puppy!  Open their bleared
lids and look on your own accursed senselessness!  It does good
to no woman to be flattered by her superior, who cannot possibly
intend to marry her; and it is madness in all women to let a secret
love kindle within them, which, if unreturned and unknown, must
devour the life that feeds it; and, if discovered and responded
to, must lead, ignis-fatus-like, into miry wilds whence there is
no extrication.
"Listen, then, Jane Eyre, to your sentence:  tomorrow, place the
glass before you, and draw in chalk your own picture, faithfully,
without softening one defect; omit no harsh line, smooth away no
displeasing irregularity; write under it, 'Portrait of a Governess,
disconnected, poor, and plain.'
"Afterwards, take a piece of smooth ivory -- you have one prepared
in your drawing-box:  take your palette, mix your freshest, finest,
clearest tints; choose your most delicate camel-hair pencils;
delineate carefully the loveliest face you can imagine; paint
it in your softest shades and sweetest lines, according to the
description given by Mrs. Fairfax of Blanche Ingram; remember the
raven ringlets, the oriental eye; -- What!  you revert to Mr. Rochester
as a model!  Order!  No snivel! -- no sentiment! -- no regret!  I
will endure only sense and resolution.  Recall the august yet
harmonious lineaments, the Grecian neck and bust; let the round
and dazzling arm be visible, and the delicate hand; omit neither
diamond ring nor gold bracelet; portray faithfully the attire,
aerial lace and glistening satin, graceful scarf and golden rose;
call it 'Blanche, an accomplished lady of rank.'
"Whenever, in future, you should chance to fancy Mr. Rochester
thinks well of you, take out these two pictures and compare them:
say, 'Mr. Rochester might probably win that noble lady's love, if
he chose to strive for it; is it likely he would waste a serious
thought on this indigent and insignificant plebeian?'"
"I'll do it," I resolved:  and having framed this determination,
I grew calm, and fell asleep.
I kept my word.  An hour or two sufficed to sketch my own portrait
in crayons; and in less than a fortnight I had completed an ivory
miniature of an imaginary Blanche Ingram.  It looked a lovely face
enough, and when compared with the real head in chalk, the contrast
was as great as self-control could desire.  I derived benefit from
the task:  it had kept my head and hands employed, and had given
force and fixedness to the new impressions I wished to stamp
indelibly on my heart.
Ere long, I had reason to congratulate myself on the course
of wholesome discipline to which I had thus forced my feelings to
submit.  Thanks to it, I was able to meet subsequent occurrences
with a decent calm, which, had they found me unprepared, I should
probably have been unequal to maintain, even externally.
CHAPTER XVII
A week passed, and no news arrived of Mr. Rochester:  ten days,
and still he did not come.  Mrs. Fairfax said she should not be
surprised if he were to go straight from the Leas to London, and
thence to the Continent, and not show his face again at Thornfield
for a year to come; he had not unfrequently quitted it in a manner
quite as abrupt and unexpected.  When I heard this, I was beginning
to feel a strange chill and failing at the heart.  I was actually
permitting myself to experience a sickening sense of disappointment;
but rallying my wits, and recollecting my principles, I at once
called my sensations to order; and it was wonderful how I got over
the temporary blunder -- how I cleared up the mistake of supposing
Mr. Rochester's movements a matter in which I had any cause to take
a vital interest.  Not that I humbled myself by a slavish
notion of inferiority:  on the contrary, I just said -
"You have nothing to do with the master of Thornfield, further than
to receive the salary he gives you for teaching his protegee, and
to be grateful for such respectful and kind treatment as, if you do
your duty, you have a right to expect at his hands.  Be sure that
is the only tie he seriously acknowledges between you and him; so
don't make him the object of your fine feelings, your raptures,
agonies, and so forth.  He is not of your order:  keep to your
caste, and be too self-respecting to lavish the love of the whole
heart, soul, and strength, where such a gift is not wanted and
would be despised."
I went on with my day's business tranquilly; but ever and anon
vague suggestions kept wandering across my brain of reasons why I
should quit Thornfield; and I kept involuntarily framing advertisements
and pondering conjectures about new situations:  these thoughts I
did not think to check; they might germinate and bear fruit if they
could.
Mr. Rochester had been absent upwards of a fortnight, when the post
brought Mrs. Fairfax a letter.
"It is from the master," said she, as she looked at the direction.
"Now I suppose we shall know whether we are to expect his return
or not."
