
And while she broke the seal and perused the document, I went on
taking my coffee (we were at breakfast):  it was hot, and I attributed
to that circumstance a fiery glow which suddenly rose to my face.
Why my hand shook, and why I involuntarily spilt half the contents
of my cup into my saucer, I did not choose to consider.
"Well, I sometimes think we are too quiet; but we run a chance of
being busy enough now:  for a little while at least," said Mrs.
Fairfax, still holding the note before her spectacles.
Ere I permitted myself to request an explanation, I tied the string
of Adele's pinafore, which happened to be loose:  having helped her
also to another bun and refilled her mug with milk, I said, nonchalantly -
"Mr. Rochester is not likely to return soon, I suppose?"
"Indeed he is -- in three days, he says:  that will be next Thursday;
and not alone either.  I don't know how many of the fine people
at the Leas are coming with him:  he sends directions for all the
best bedrooms to be prepared; and the library and drawing-rooms are
to be cleaned out; I am to get more kitchen hands from the George
Inn, at Millcote, and from wherever else I can; and the ladies will
bring their maids and the gentlemen their valets:  so we shall have
a full house of it."  And Mrs. Fairfax swallowed her breakfast and
hastened away to commence operations.
The three days were, as she had foretold, busy enough.  I had thought
all the rooms at Thornfield beautifully clean and well arranged;
but it appears I was mistaken.  Three women were got to help; and
such scrubbing, such brushing, such washing of paint and beating of
carpets, such taking down and putting up of pictures, such polishing
of mirrors and lustres, such lighting of fires in bedrooms, such
airing of sheets and feather-beds on hearths, I never beheld,
either before or since.  Adele ran quite wild in the midst of it:
the preparations for company and the prospect of their arrival,
seemed to throw her into ecstasies.  She would have Sophie to look
over all her "toilettes," as she called frocks; to furbish up any
that were "passees," and to air and arrange the new.  For herself,
she did nothing but caper about in the front chambers, jump on and
off the bedsteads, and lie on the mattresses and piled-up bolsters
and pillows before the enormous fires roaring in the chimneys.
From school duties she was exonerated:  Mrs. Fairfax had pressed
me into her service, and I was all day in the storeroom, helping
(or hindering) her and the cook; learning to make custards and
cheese-cakes and French pastry, to truss game and garnish desert-dishes.
The party were expected to arrive on Thursday afternoon, in time
for dinner at six.  During the intervening period I had no time to
nurse chimeras; and I believe I was as active and gay as anybody
-- Adele excepted.  Still, now and then, I received a damping check
to my cheerfulness; and was, in spite of myself, thrown back on
the region of doubts and portents, and dark conjectures.  This was
when I chanced to see the third-storey staircase door (which of
late had always been kept locked) open slowly, and give passage to
the form of Grace Poole, in prim cap, white apron, and handkerchief; when
I watched her glide along the gallery, her quiet tread muffled in
a list slipper; when I saw her look into the bustling, topsy-turvy
bedrooms, -- just say a word, perhaps, to the charwoman about the
proper way to polish a grate, or clean a marble mantelpiece, or
take stains from papered walls, and then pass on.  She would thus
descend to the kitchen once a day, eat her dinner, smoke a moderate
pipe on the hearth, and go back, carrying her pot of porter with
her, for her private solace, in her own gloomy, upper haunt.  Only
one hour in the twenty-four did she pass with her fellow-servants
below; all the rest of her time was spent in some low-ceiled,
oaken chamber of the second storey:  there she sat and sewed --
and probably laughed drearily to herself, -- as companionless as
a prisoner in his dungeon.
The strangest thing of all was, that not a soul in the house,
except me, noticed her habits, or seemed to marvel at them:  no one
discussed her position or employment; no one pitied her solitude
or isolation.  I once, indeed, overheard part of a dialogue between
Leah and one of the charwomen, of which Grace formed the subject.
Leah had been saying something I had not caught, and the
charwoman remarked -
"She gets good wages, I guess?"
"Yes," said Leah; "I wish I had as good; not that mine are to
complain of, -- there's no stinginess at Thornfield; but they're
not one fifth of the sum Mrs. Poole receives.  And she is laying
by:  she goes every quarter to the bank at Millcote.  I should
not wonder but she has saved enough to keep her independent if she
liked to leave; but I suppose she's got used to the place; and then
she's not forty yet, and strong and able for anything.  It is too
soon for her to give up business."
"She is a good hand, I daresay," said the charwoman.
"Ah! -- she understands what she has to do, -- nobody better,"
rejoined Leah significantly; "and it is not every one could fill
her shoes -- not for all the money she gets."
"That it is not!"  was the reply.  "I wonder whether the master -- "
The charwoman was going on; but here Leah turned and perceived me,
and she instantly gave her companion a nudge.
"Doesn't she know?"  I heard the woman whisper.
Leah shook her head, and the conversation was of course dropped.
All I had gathered from it amounted to this, -- that there was a
mystery at Thornfield; and that from participation in that mystery
I was purposely excluded.
Thursday came:  all work had been completed the previous evening;
carpets were laid down, bed-hangings festooned, radiant white
counterpanes spread, toilet tables arranged, furniture rubbed,
flowers piled in vases:  both chambers and saloons looked as fresh
and bright as hands could make them.  The hall, too, was scoured;
and the great carved clock, as well as the steps and banisters of
the staircase, were polished to the brightness of glass; in the
dining-room, the sideboard flashed resplendent with plate; in the
drawing-room and boudoir, vases of exotics bloomed on all sides.
Afternoon arrived:  Mrs. Fairfax assumed her best black satin gown,
her gloves, and her gold watch; for it was her part to receive the
company, -- to conduct the ladies to their rooms, &c.  Adele, too,
would be dressed:  though I thought she had little chance of being
introduced to the party that day at least.  However, to please her,
I allowed Sophie to apparel her in one of her short, full muslin
frocks.  For myself, I had no need to make any change; I should not
be called upon to quit my sanctum of the schoolroom; for a sanctum
it was now become to me, -- "a very pleasant refuge in time of
trouble."
It had been a mild, serene spring day -- one of those days which,
towards the end of March or the beginning of April, rise shining
over the earth as heralds of summer.  It was drawing to an end now;
but the evening was even warm, and I sat at work in the schoolroom
with the window open.
"It gets late," said Mrs. Fairfax, entering in rustling state.
"I am glad I ordered dinner an hour after the time Mr. Rochester
mentioned; for it is past six now.  I have sent John down to the
gates to see if there is anything on the road:  one can see a long
way from thence in the direction of Millcote."  She went to the
window.  "Here he is!"  said she.  "Well, John" (leaning out), "any
news?"
"They're coming, ma'am," was the answer.  "They'll be here in ten
minutes."
Adele flew to the window.  I followed, taking care to stand on one
side, so that, screened by the curtain, I could see without being
seen.
The ten minutes John had given seemed very long, but at last wheels
were heard; four equestrians galloped up the drive, and after them
came two open carriages.  Fluttering veils and waving plumes filled
the vehicles; two of the cavaliers were young, dashing-looking
gentlemen; the third was Mr. Rochester, on his black horse, Mesrour,
Pilot bounding before him; at his side rode a lady, and he and she
were the first of the party.  Her purple riding-habit almost swept
the ground, her veil streamed long on the breeze; mingling with
its transparent folds, and gleaming through them, shone rich raven
ringlets.
"Miss Ingram!"  exclaimed Mrs. Fairfax, and away she hurried to
her post below.
The cavalcade, following the sweep of the drive, quickly turned the
angle of the house, and I lost sight of it.  Adele now petitioned
to go down; but I took her on my knee, and gave her to understand
that she must not on any account think of venturing in sight of
the ladies, either now or at any other time, unless expressly sent
for:  that Mr. Rochester would be very angry, &c.  "Some natural
tears she shed" on being told this; but as I began to look very
grave, she consented at last to wipe them.
A joyous stir was now audible in the hall:  gentlemen's deep
tones and ladies' silvery accents blent harmoniously together, and
distinguishable above all, though not loud, was the sonorous voice
of the master of Thornfield Hall, welcoming his fair and gallant
guests under its roof.  Then light steps ascended the stairs; and
there was a tripping through the gallery, and soft cheerful laughs,
and opening and closing doors, and, for a time, a hush.
"Elles changent de toilettes," said Adele; who, listening attentively,
had followed every movement; and she sighed.
"Chez maman," said she, "quand il y avait du monde, je le suivais
partout, au salon et e leurs chambres; souvent je regardais les
femmes de chambre coiffer et habiller les dames, et c'etait si
amusant:  comme cela on apprend."
"Don't you feel hungry, Adele?"
"Mais oui, mademoiselle:  voile cinq ou six heures que nous n'avons
pas mange."
"Well now, while the ladies are in their rooms, I will venture down
and get you something to eat."
And issuing from my asylum with precaution, I sought a back-stairs
which conducted directly to the kitchen.  All in that region was
fire and commotion; the soup and fish were in the last stage of
projection, and the cook hung over her crucibles in a frame of mind
and body threatening spontaneous combustion.  In the servants' hall
two coachmen and three gentlemen's gentlemen stood or sat round the
fire; the abigails, I suppose, were upstairs with their mistresses;
the new servants, that had been hired from Millcote, were bustling
about everywhere.  Threading this chaos, I at last reached the
larder; there I took possession of a cold chicken, a roll of bread,
some tarts, a plate or two and a knife and fork:  with this booty
I made a hasty retreat.  I had regained the gallery, and was just
shutting the back-door behind me, when an accelerated hum warned me
that the ladies were about to issue from their chambers.  I could
not proceed to the schoolroom without passing some of their doors,
and running the risk of being surprised with my cargo of victualage;
so I stood still at this end, which, being windowless, was dark:
quite dark now, for the sun was set and twilight gathering.
Presently the chambers gave up their fair tenants one after another:
each came out gaily and airily, with dress that gleamed lustrous
through the dusk.  For a moment they stood grouped together at
the other extremity of the gallery, conversing in a key of sweet
subdued vivacity:  they then descended the staircase almost as
noiselessly as a bright mist rolls down a hill.  Their collective
appearance had left on me an impression of high-born elegance, such
as I had never before received.
I found Adele peeping through the schoolroom door, which she held
ajar.  "What beautiful ladies!"  cried she in English.  "Oh, I wish
I might go to them!  Do you think Mr. Rochester will send for us
by-and-bye, after dinner?"
"No, indeed, I don't; Mr. Rochester has something else to think
about.  Never mind the ladies to-night; perhaps you will see them
to-morrow:  here is your dinner."
She was really hungry, so the chicken and tarts served to divert
her attention for a time.  It was well I secured this forage, or
both she, I, and Sophie, to whom I conveyed a share of our repast,
would have run a chance of getting no dinner at all:  every one
downstairs was too much engaged to think of us.  The dessert was not
carried out till after nine and at ten footmen were still running
to and fro with trays and coffee-cups.  I allowed Adele to sit up
much later than usual; for she declared she could not possibly go
to sleep while the doors kept opening and shutting below, and people
bustling about.  Besides, she added, a message might possibly come
from Mr. Rochester when she was undressed; "et alors quel dommage!"
I told her stories as long as she would listen to them; and then
for a change I took her out into the gallery.  The hall lamp was
now lit, and it amused her to look over the balustrade and watch
the servants passing backwards and forwards.  When the evening
was far advanced, a sound of music issued from the drawing-room,
whither the piano had been removed; Adele and I sat down on the
top step of the stairs to listen.  Presently a voice blent with
the rich tones of the instrument; it was a lady who sang, and very
sweet her notes were.  The solo over, a duet followed, and then a
glee:  a joyous conversational murmur filled up the intervals.  I
listened long:  suddenly I discovered that my ear was wholly intent
on analysing the mingled sounds, and trying to discriminate amidst
the confusion of accents those of Mr. Rochester; and when it caught
them, which it soon did, it found a further task in framing the
tones, rendered by distance inarticulate, into words.
The clock struck eleven.  I looked at Adele, whose head leant
against my shoulder; her eyes were waxing heavy, so I took her up
in my arms and carried her off to bed.  It was near one before the
gentlemen and ladies sought their chambers.
The next day was as fine as its predecessor:  it was devoted by
the party to an excursion to some site in the neighbourhood.  They
set out early in the forenoon, some on horseback, the rest in
carriages; I witnessed both the departure and the return.  Miss
Ingram, as before, was the only lady equestrian; and, as before,
Mr. Rochester galloped at her side; the two rode a little apart from
the rest.  I pointed out this circumstance to Mrs. Fairfax,
who was standing at the window with me -
"You said it was not likely they should think of being married,"
said I, "but you see Mr. Rochester evidently prefers her to any of
the other ladies."
"Yes, I daresay:  no doubt he admires her."
"And she him," I added; "look how she leans her head towards him
as if she were conversing confidentially; I wish I could see her
face; I have never had a glimpse of it yet."
"You will see her this evening," answered Mrs. Fairfax.  "I happened
to remark to Mr. Rochester how much Adele wished to be introduced
to the ladies, and he said:  'Oh!  let her come into the drawing-room
after dinner; and request Miss Eyre to accompany her.'"
"Yes; he said that from mere politeness:  I need not go, I am sure,"
I answered.
"Well, I observed to him that as you were unused to company, I did
not think you would like appearing before so gay a party -- all
strangers; and he replied, in his quick way -- 'Nonsense!  If she
objects, tell her it is my particular wish; and if she resists,
say I shall come and fetch her in case of contumacy.'"
"I will not give him that trouble," I answered.  "I will go, if
no better may be; but I don't like it.  Shall you be there, Mrs.
Fairfax?"
"No; I pleaded off, and he admitted my plea.  I'll tell you how to
manage so as to avoid the embarrassment of making a formal entrance,
which is the most disagreeable part of the business.  You must go
into the drawing-room while it is empty, before the ladies leave
the dinner-table; choose your seat in any quiet nook you like; you
need not stay long after the gentlemen come in, unless you please:
just let Mr. Rochester see you are there and then slip away --
nobody will notice you."
"Will these people remain long, do you think?"
"Perhaps two or three weeks, certainly not more.  After the
Easter recess, Sir George Lynn, who was lately elected member for
Millcote, will have to go up to town and take his seat; I daresay
Mr. Rochester will accompany him:  it surprises me that he has
already made so protracted a stay at Thornfield."
It was with some trepidation that I perceived the hour approach
when I was to repair with my charge to the drawing-room.  Adele
had been in a state of ecstasy all day, after hearing she was to be
presented to the ladies in the evening; and it was not till Sophie
commenced the operation of dressing her that she sobered down.  Then
the importance of the process quickly steadied her, and by the time
she had her curls arranged in well-smoothed, drooping clusters, her
pink satin frock put on, her long sash tied, and her lace mittens
adjusted, she looked as grave as any judge.  No need to warn her not
to disarrange her attire:  when she was dressed, she sat demurely
down in her little chair, taking care previously to lift up the
satin skirt for fear she should crease it, and assured me she would
not stir thence till I was ready.  This I quickly was:  my best
dress (the silver-grey one, purchased for Miss Temple's wedding,
and never worn since) was soon put on; my hair was soon smoothed;
my sole ornament, the pearl brooch, soon assumed.  We descended.
