
"Ask Blanche; she is nearer you than I."
"Oh, don't refer him to me, mama!  I have just one word to say of
the whole tribe; they are a nuisance.  Not that I ever suffered much
from them; I took care to turn the tables.  What tricks Theodore
and I used to play on our Miss Wilsons, and Mrs. Greys, and Madame
Jouberts!  Mary was always too sleepy to join in a plot with
spirit.  The best fun was with Madame Joubert:  Miss Wilson was
a poor sickly thing, lachrymose and low-spirited, not worth the
trouble of vanquishing, in short; and Mrs. Grey was coarse and
insensible; no blow took effect on her.  But poor Madame Joubert!
I see her yet in her raging passions, when we had driven her to
extremities -- spilt our tea, crumbled our bread and butter, tossed
our books up to the ceiling, and played a charivari with the ruler
and desk, the fender and fire-irons.  Theodore, do you remember
those merry days?"
"Yaas, to be sure I do," drawled Lord Ingram; "and the poor old
stick used to cry out 'Oh you villains childs!' -- and then we
sermonised her on the presumption of attempting to teach such clever
blades as we were, when she was herself so ignorant."
"We did; and, Tedo, you know, I helped you in prosecuting (or
persecuting) your tutor, whey-faced Mr. Vining -- the parson in the
pip, as we used to call him.  He and Miss Wilson took the liberty
of falling in love with each other -- at least Tedo and I thought
so; we surprised sundry tender glances and sighs which we interpreted
as tokens of 'la belle passion,' and I promise you the public soon
had the benefit of our discovery; we employed it as a sort of lever
to hoist our dead-weights from the house.  Dear mama, there, as
soon as she got an inkling of the business, found out that it was
of an immoral tendency.  Did you not, my lady-mother?"
"Certainly, my best.  And I was quite right:  depend on that:
there are a thousand reasons why liaisons between governesses and
tutors should never be tolerated a moment in any well-regulated
house; firstly -- "
"Oh, gracious, mama!  Spare us the enumeration!  Au reste, we
all know them:  danger of bad example to innocence of childhood;
distractions and consequent neglect of duty on the part of the attached
-- mutual alliance and reliance; confidence thence resulting --
insolence accompanying -- mutiny and general blow-up.  Am I right,
Baroness Ingram, of Ingram Park?"
"My lily-flower, you are right now, as always."
"Then no more need be said:  change the subject."
Amy Eshton, not hearing or not heeding this dictum, joined in with
her soft, infantine tone:  "Louisa and I used to quiz our governess
too; but she was such a good creature, she would bear anything:
nothing put her out.  She was never cross with us; was she, Louisa?"
"No, never:  we might do what we pleased; ransack her desk and
her workbox, and turn her drawers inside out; and she was so good-
natured, she would give us anything we asked for."
"I suppose, now," said Miss Ingram, curling her lip sarcastically,
"we shall have an abstract of the memoirs of all the governesses
extant:  in order to avert such a visitation, I again move
the introduction of a new topic.  Mr. Rochester, do you second my
motion?"
"Madam, I support you on this point, as on every other."
"Then on me be the onus of bringing it forward.  Signior Eduardo,
are you in voice to-night?"
"Donna Bianca, if you command it, I will be."
"Then, signior, I lay on you my sovereign behest to furbish up your
lungs and other vocal organs, as they will be wanted on my royal
service."
"Who would not be the Rizzio of so divine a Mary?"
"A fig for Rizzio!"  cried she, tossing her head with all its
curls, as she moved to the piano.  "It is my opinion the fiddler
David must have been an insipid sort of fellow; I like black Bothwell
better:  to my mind a man is nothing without a spice of the devil
in him; and history may say what it will of James Hepburn, but I
have a notion, he was just the sort of wild, fierce, bandit hero
whom I could have consented to gift with my hand."
"Gentlemen, you hear!  Now which of you most resembles Bothwell?"
cried Mr. Rochester.
"I should say the preference lies with you," responded Colonel
Dent.
"On my honour, I am much obliged to you," was the reply.
Miss Ingram, who had now seated herself with proud grace at the
piano, spreading out her snowy robes in queenly amplitude, commenced
a brilliant prelude; talking meantime.  She appeared to be on her
high horse to-night; both her words and her air seemed intended to
excite not only the admiration, but the amazement of her auditors:
she was evidently bent on striking them as something very dashing
and daring indeed.
"Oh, I am so sick of the young men of the present day!"  exclaimed
she, rattling away at the instrument.  "Poor, puny things, not fit
to stir a step beyond papa's park gates:  nor to go even so far
without mama's permission and guardianship!  Creatures so absorbed
in care about their pretty faces, and their white hands, and
their small feet; as if a man had anything to do with beauty!  As
if loveliness were not the special prerogative of woman -- her
legitimate appanage and heritage!  I grant an ugly WOMAN is a blot
on the fair face of creation; but as to the GENTLEMEN, let them be
solicitous to possess only strength and valour:  let their motto
be:- Hunt, shoot, and fight:  the rest is not worth a fillip.  Such
should be my device, were I a man."
"Whenever I marry," she continued after a pause which none interrupted,
"I am resolved my husband shall not be a rival, but a foil to me.
I will suffer no competitor near the throne; I shall exact an
undivided homage:  his devotions shall not be shared between me
and the shape he sees in his mirror.  Mr. Rochester, now sing, and
I will play for you."
"I am all obedience," was the response.
"Here then is a Corsair-song.  Know that I doat on Corsairs; and
for that reason, sing it con spirito."
"Commands from Miss Ingram's lips would put spirit into a mug of
milk and water."
"Take care, then:  if you don't please me, I will shame you by
showing how such things SHOULD be done."
"That is offering a premium on incapacity:  I shall now endeavour
to fail."
"Gardez-vous en bien!  If you err wilfully, I shall devise a
proportionate punishment."
"Miss Ingram ought to be clement, for she has it in her power to
inflict a chastisement beyond mortal endurance."
"Ha!  explain!"  commanded the lady.
"Pardon me, madam:  no need of explanation; your own fine sense must
inform you that one of your frowns would be a sufficient substitute
for capital punishment."
"Sing!"  said she, and again touching the piano, she commenced an
accompaniment in spirited style.
"Now is my time to slip away," thought I: but the tones that then
severed the air arrested me.  Mrs. Fairfax had said Mr. Rochester
possessed a fine voice:  he did -- a mellow, powerful bass, into
which he threw his own feeling, his own force; finding a way through
the ear to the heart, and there waking sensation strangely.  I
waited till the last deep and full vibration had expired -- till
the tide of talk, checked an instant, had resumed its flow; I then
quitted my sheltered corner and made my exit by the side-door,
which was fortunately near.  Thence a narrow passage led into the
hall:  in crossing it, I perceived my sandal was loose; I stopped
to tie it, kneeling down for that purpose on the mat at the foot of
the staircase.  I heard the dining-room door unclose; a gentleman
came out; rising hastily, I stood face to face with him:  it was
Mr. Rochester.
"How do you do?"  he asked.
"I am very well, sir."
"Why did you not come and speak to me in the room?"
I thought I might have retorted the question on him who
put it:  but I would not take that freedom.  I answered -
"I did not wish to disturb you, as you seemed engaged, sir."
"What have you been doing during my absence?"
"Nothing particular; teaching Adele as usual."
"And getting a good deal paler than you were -- as I saw at first
sight.  What is the matter?"
"Nothing at all, sir."
"Did you take any cold that night you half drowned me?"
"Not the least."
"Return to the drawing-room:  you are deserting too early."
"I am tired, sir."
He looked at me for a minute.
"And a little depressed," he said.  "What about?  Tell me."
"Nothing -- nothing, sir.  I am not depressed."
