
November, December, and half of January passed away.  Christmas
and the New Year had been celebrated at Gateshead with the usual
festive cheer; presents had been interchanged, dinners and evening
parties given.  From every enjoyment I was, of course, excluded:  my
share of the gaiety consisted in witnessing the daily apparelling
of Eliza and Georgiana, and seeing them descend to the drawing-room,
dressed out in thin muslin frocks and scarlet sashes, with hair
elaborately ringletted; and afterwards, in listening to the sound
of the piano or the harp played below, to the passing to and fro
of the butler and footman, to the jingling of glass and china as
refreshments were handed, to the broken hum of conversation as the
drawing-room door opened and closed.  When tired of this occupation,
I would retire from the stairhead to the solitary and silent nursery:
there, though somewhat sad, I was not miserable.  To speak truth,
I had not the least wish to go into company, for in company I was
very rarely noticed; and if Bessie had but been kind and companionable,
I should have deemed it a treat to spend the evenings quietly with
her, instead of passing them under the formidable eye of Mrs. Reed,
in a room full of ladies and gentlemen.  But Bessie, as soon as
she had dressed her young ladies, used to take herself off to the
lively regions of the kitchen and housekeeper's room, generally
bearing the candle along with her.  I then sat with my doll on my
knee till the fire got low, glancing round occasionally to make
sure that nothing worse than myself haunted the shadowy room; and
when the embers sank to a dull red, I undressed hastily, tugging
at knots and strings as I best might, and sought shelter from cold
and darkness in my crib.  To this crib I always took my doll; human
beings must love something, and, in the dearth of worthier objects
of affection, I contrived to find a pleasure in loving and cherishing
a faded graven image, shabby as a miniature scarecrow.  It puzzles
me now to remember with what absurd sincerity I doated on this
little toy, half fancying it alive and capable of sensation.  I
could not sleep unless it was folded in my night-gown; and when it
lay there safe and warm, I was comparatively happy, believing it
to be happy likewise.
Long did the hours seem while I waited the departure of the company, and
listened for the sound of Bessie's step on the stairs:  sometimes
she would come up in the interval to seek her thimble or her
scissors, or perhaps to bring me something by way of supper -- a
bun or a cheese-cake -- then she would sit on the bed while I ate
it, and when I had finished, she would tuck the clothes round me,
and twice she kissed me, and said, "Good night, Miss Jane."  When
thus gentle, Bessie seemed to me the best, prettiest, kindest being
in the world; and I wished most intensely that she would always
be so pleasant and amiable, and never push me about, or scold, or
task me unreasonably, as she was too often wont to do.  Bessie Lee
must, I think, have been a girl of good natural capacity, for she
was smart in all she did, and had a remarkable knack of narrative;
so, at least, I judge from the impression made on me by her nursery
tales.  She was pretty too, if my recollections of her face and
person are correct.  I remember her as a slim young woman, with black
hair, dark eyes, very nice features, and good, clear complexion;
but she had a capricious and hasty temper, and indifferent ideas
of principle or justice:  still, such as she was, I preferred her
to any one else at Gateshead Hall.
It was the fifteenth of January, about nine o'clock in the morning:
Bessie was gone down to breakfast; my cousins had not yet been
summoned to their mama; Eliza was putting on her bonnet and warm
garden-coat to go and feed her poultry, an occupation of which she
was fond:  and not less so of selling the eggs to the housekeeper
and hoarding up the money she thus obtained.  She had a turn for
traffic, and a marked propensity for saving; shown not only in the
vending of eggs and chickens, but also in driving hard bargains
with the gardener about flower-roots, seeds, and slips of plants;
that functionary having orders from Mrs. Reed to buy of his young
lady all the products of her parterre she wished to sell:  and
Eliza would have sold the hair off her head if she could have made
a handsome profit thereby.  As to her money, she first secreted
it in odd corners, wrapped in a rag or an old curl-paper; but some
of these hoards having been discovered by the housemaid, Eliza,
fearful of one day losing her valued treasure, consented to intrust
it to her mother, at a usurious rate of interest -- fifty or sixty
per cent.; which interest she exacted every quarter, keeping her
accounts in a little book with anxious accuracy.
Georgiana sat on a high stool, dressing her hair at the glass, and
interweaving her curls with artificial flowers and faded feathers,
of which she had found a store in a drawer in the attic.  I was
making my bed, having received strict orders from Bessie to get it
arranged before she returned (for Bessie now frequently employed me
as a sort of under-nurserymaid, to tidy the room, dust the chairs,
&c.).  Having spread the quilt and folded my night-dress, I went
to the window-seat to put in order some picture-books and doll's
house furniture scattered there; an abrupt command from Georgiana
to let her playthings alone (for the tiny chairs and mirrors, the
fairy plates and cups, were her property) stopped my proceedings;
and then, for lack of other occupation, I fell to breathing on the
frost-flowers with which the window was fretted, and thus clearing
a space in the glass through which I might look out on the grounds,
where all was still and petrified under the influence of a hard
frost.
From this window were visible the porter's lodge and the carriage-
road, and just as I had dissolved so much of the silver-white foliage
veiling the panes as left room to look out, I saw the gates thrown
open and a carriage roll through.  I watched it ascending the drive
with indifference; carriages often came to Gateshead, but none ever
brought visitors in whom I was interested; it stopped in front of
the house, the door-bell rang loudly, the new-comer was admitted.
All this being nothing to me, my vacant attention soon found livelier
attraction in the spectacle of a little hungry robin, which came and
chirruped on the twigs of the leafless cherry-tree nailed against
the wall near the casement.  The remains of my breakfast of bread
and milk stood on the table, and having crumbled a morsel of roll,
I was tugging at the sash to put out the crumbs on the window-
sill, when Bessie came running upstairs into the nursery.
"Miss Jane, take off your pinafore; what are you doing there?  Have
you washed your hands and face this morning?"  I gave another tug
before I answered, for I wanted the bird to be secure of its bread:
the sash yielded; I scattered the crumbs, some on the stone sill,
some on the cherry-tree bough, then, closing the window, I replied -
"No, Bessie; I have only just finished dusting."
"Troublesome, careless child!  and what are you doing now?  You
look quite red, as if you had been about some mischief:  what were
you opening the window for?"
I was spared the trouble of answering, for Bessie seemed in too great
a hurry to listen to explanations; she hauled me to the washstand,
inflicted a merciless, but happily brief scrub on my face and hands
with soap, water, and a coarse towel; disciplined my head with a
bristly brush, denuded me of my pinafore, and then hurrying me to
the top of the stairs, bid me go down directly, as I was wanted in
the breakfast-room.
I would have asked who wanted me:  I would have demanded if
Mrs. Reed was there; but Bessie was already gone, and had closed
the nursery-door upon me.  I slowly descended.  For nearly three
months, I had never been called to Mrs. Reed's presence; restricted
so long to the nursery, the breakfast, dining, and drawing-rooms
were become for me awful regions, on which it dismayed me to intrude.
I now stood in the empty hall; before me was the breakfast-room
door, and I stopped, intimidated and trembling.  What a miserable
little poltroon had fear, engendered of unjust punishment, made of
me in those days!  I feared to return to the nursery, and feared
to go forward to the parlour; ten minutes I stood in agitated
hesitation; the vehement ringing of the breakfast-room bell decided
me; I MUST enter.
"Who could want me?"  I asked inwardly, as with both hands I turned
the stiff door-handle, which, for a second or two, resisted my
efforts.  "What should I see besides Aunt Reed in the apartment?
-- a man or a woman?"  The handle turned, the door unclosed,
and passing through and curtseying low, I looked up at -- a black
pillar! -- such, at least, appeared to me, at first sight, the
straight, narrow, sable-clad shape standing erect on the rug:  the
grim face at the top was like a carved mask, placed above the shaft
by way of capital.
Mrs. Reed occupied her usual seat by the fireside; she made a
signal to me to approach; I did so, and she introduced me to the
stony stranger with the words:  "This is the little girl respecting
whom I applied to you."
HE, for it was a man, turned his head slowly towards where I stood,
and having examined me with the two inquisitive-looking grey eyes
which twinkled under a pair of bushy brows, said solemnly, and in
a bass voice, "Her size is small:  what is her age?"
"Ten years."
"So much?"  was the doubtful answer; and he prolonged his scrutiny
for some minutes.  Presently he addressed me -- "Your name, little
girl?"
"Jane Eyre, sir."
In uttering these words I looked up:  he seemed to me a tall gentleman;
but then I was very little; his features were large, and they and
all the lines of his frame were equally harsh and prim.
"Well, Jane Eyre, and are you a good child?"
Impossible to reply to this in the affirmative:  my little world
held a contrary opinion:  I was silent.  Mrs. Reed answered for me
by an expressive shake of the head, adding soon, "Perhaps the less
said on that subject the better, Mr. Brocklehurst."
"Sorry indeed to hear it!  she and I must have some talk;" and
bending from the perpendicular, he installed his person in the arm-
chair opposite Mrs. Reed's.  "Come here," he said.
I stepped across the rug; he placed me square and straight before
him.  What a face he had, now that it was almost on a level
with mine!  what a great nose!  and what a mouth!  and what large
prominent teeth!
"No sight so sad as that of a naughty child," he began, "especially a
naughty little girl.  Do you know where the wicked go after death?"
"They go to hell," was my ready and orthodox answer.
"And what is hell?  Can you tell me that?"
"A pit full of fire."
"And should you like to fall into that pit, and to be burning there
for ever?"
"No, sir."
"What must you do to avoid it?"
I deliberated a moment; my answer, when it did come, was objectionable:
"I must keep in good health, and not die."
"How can you keep in good health?  Children younger than you die
daily.  I buried a little child of five years old only a day or
two since, -- a good little child, whose soul is now in heaven.
It is to be feared the same could not be said of you were you to
be called hence."
Not being in a condition to remove his doubt, I only cast my eyes
down on the two large feet planted on the rug, and sighed, wishing
myself far enough away.
"I hope that sigh is from the heart, and that you repent of ever
having been the occasion of discomfort to your excellent benefactress."
"Benefactress!  benefactress!"  said I inwardly:  "they all call
Mrs. Reed my benefactress; if so, a benefactress is a disagreeable
thing."
"Do you say your prayers night and morning?"  continued my
interrogator.
"Yes, sir."
"Do you read your Bible?"
"Sometimes."
"With pleasure?  Are you fond of it?"
"I like Revelations, and the book of Daniel, and Genesis and Samuel,
and a little bit of Exodus, and some parts of Kings and Chronicles,
and Job and Jonah."
"And the Psalms?  I hope you like them?"
"No, sir."
"No?  oh, shocking!  I have a little boy, younger than you, who
knows six Psalms by heart:  and when you ask him which he would
rather have, a gingerbread-nut to eat or a verse of a Psalm to
learn, he says:  'Oh!  the verse of a Psalm!  angels sing Psalms;'
says he, 'I wish to be a little angel here below;' he then gets
two nuts in recompense for his infant piety."
"Psalms are not interesting," I remarked.
"That proves you have a wicked heart; and you must pray to God to
change it:  to give you a new and clean one:  to take away your
heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh."
I was about to propound a question, touching the manner in which
that operation of changing my heart was to be performed, when Mrs.
Reed interposed, telling me to sit down; she then proceeded to
carry on the conversation herself.
"Mr. Brocklehurst, I believe I intimated in the letter which I
wrote to you three weeks ago, that this little girl has not quite
the character and disposition I could wish:  should you admit her
into Lowood school, I should be glad if the superintendent and
teachers were requested to keep a strict eye on her, and, above
all, to guard against her worst fault, a tendency to deceit.  I
mention this in your hearing, Jane, that you may not attempt to
impose on Mr. Brocklehurst."
Well might I dread, well might I dislike Mrs. Reed; for it was
her nature to wound me cruelly; never was I happy in her presence;
however carefully I obeyed, however strenuously I strove to please
her, my efforts were still repulsed and repaid by such sentences
as the above.  Now, uttered before a stranger, the accusation cut
me to the heart; I dimly perceived that she was already obliterating
hope from the new phase of existence which she destined me to
enter; I felt, though I could not have expressed the feeling, that
she was sowing aversion and unkindness along my future path; I saw
myself transformed under Mr. Brocklehurst's eye into an artful,
noxious child, and what could I do to remedy the injury?
"Nothing, indeed," thought I, as I struggled to repress a sob, and
hastily wiped away some tears, the impotent evidences of my anguish.
"Deceit is, indeed, a sad fault in a child," said Mr. Brocklehurst;
"it is akin to falsehood, and all liars will have their portion in
the lake burning with fire and brimstone; she shall, however, be
watched, Mrs. Reed.  I will speak to Miss Temple and the teachers."
