
He had spoken of Mr. Rochester as an old friend.  A curious friendship
theirs must have been:  a pointed illustration, indeed, of the old
adage that "extremes meet."
Two or three of the gentlemen sat near him, and I caught at times
scraps of their conversation across the room.  At first I could
not make much sense of what I heard; for the discourse of Louisa
Eshton and Mary Ingram, who sat nearer to me, confused the fragmentary
sentences that reached me at intervals.  These last were discussing
the stranger; they both called him "a beautiful man."  Louisa
said he was "a love of a creature," and she "adored him;" and Mary
instanced his "pretty little mouth, and nice nose," as her ideal
of the charming.
"And what a sweet-tempered forehead he has!"  cried Louisa, -- "so
smooth -- none of those frowning irregularities I dislike so much;
and such a placid eye and smile!"
And then, to my great relief, Mr. Henry Lynn summoned them to the
other side of the room, to settle some point about the deferred
excursion to Hay Common.
I was now able to concentrate my attention on the group by the fire,
and I presently gathered that the new-comer was called Mr. Mason;
then I learned that he was but just arrived in England, and that
he came from some hot country:  which was the reason, doubtless,
his face was so sallow, and that he sat so near the hearth, and
wore a surtout in the house.  Presently the words Jamaica, Kingston,
Spanish Town, indicated the West Indies as his residence; and it
was with no little surprise I gathered, ere long, that he had there
first seen and become acquainted with Mr. Rochester.  He spoke
of his friend's dislike of the burning heats, the hurricanes, and
rainy seasons of that region.  I knew Mr. Rochester had been a
traveller:  Mrs. Fairfax had said so; but I thought the continent
of Europe had bounded his wanderings; till now I had never heard
a hint given of visits to more distant shores.
I was pondering these things, when an incident, and a somewhat
unexpected one, broke the thread of my musings.  Mr. Mason, shivering
as some one chanced to open the door, asked for more coal to be
put on the fire, which had burnt out its flame, though its mass of
cinder still shone hot and red.  The footman who brought the coal,
in going out, stopped near Mr. Eshton's chair, and said something
to him in a low voice, of which I heard only the words, "old woman,"
-- "quite troublesome."
"Tell her she shall be put in the stocks if she does not take
herself off," replied the magistrate.
"No -- stop!"  interrupted Colonel Dent.  "Don't send her away,
Eshton; we might turn the thing to account; better consult the
ladies."  And speaking aloud, he continued -- "Ladies, you talked
of going to Hay Common to visit the gipsy camp; Sam here says that
one of the old Mother Bunches is in the servants' hall at this
moment, and insists upon being brought in before 'the quality,' to
tell them their fortunes.  Would you like to see her?"
"Surely, colonel," cried Lady Ingram, "you would not encourage such
a low impostor?  Dismiss her, by all means, at once!"
"But I cannot persuade her to go away, my lady," said the footman;
"nor can any of the servants:  Mrs. Fairfax is with her just now,
entreating her to be gone; but she has taken a chair in the chimney-
comer, and says nothing shall stir her from it till she gets leave
to come in here."
"What does she want?"  asked Mrs. Eshton.
"'To tell the gentry their fortunes,' she says, ma'am; and she
swears she must and will do it."
"What is she like?"  inquired the Misses Eshton, in a breath.
"A shockingly ugly old creature, miss; almost as black as a crock."
"Why, she's a real sorceress!"  cried Frederick Lynn.  "Let us have
her in, of course."
"To be sure," rejoined his brother; "it would be a thousand pities
to throw away such a chance of fun."
"My dear boys, what are you thinking about?"  exclaimed Mrs. Lynn.
"I cannot possibly countenance any such inconsistent proceeding,"
chimed in the Dowager Ingram.
"Indeed, mama, but you can -- and will," pronounced the haughty
voice of Blanche, as she turned round on the piano-stool; where
till now she had sat silent, apparently examining sundry sheets of
music.  "I have a curiosity to hear my fortune told:  therefore,
Sam, order the beldame forward."
"My darling Blanche!  recollect -- "
"I do -- I recollect all you can suggest; and I must have my will
-- quick, Sam!"
"Yes -- yes -- yes!"  cried all the juveniles, both ladies and
gentlemen.  "Let her come -- it will be excellent sport!"
The footman still lingered.  "She looks such a rough one," said
he.
"Go!"  ejaculated Miss Ingram, and the man went.
Excitement instantly seized the whole party:  a running fire of
raillery and jests was proceeding when Sam returned.
"She won't come now," said he.  "She says it's not her mission to
appear before the 'vulgar herd' (them's her words).  I must show
her into a room by herself, and then those who wish to consult her
must go to her one by one."
"You see now, my queenly Blanche," began Lady Ingram, "she
encroaches.  Be advised, my angel girl -- and -- "
"Show her into the library, of course," cut in the "angel girl."  "It
is not my mission to listen to her before the vulgar herd either:
I mean to have her all to myself.  Is there a fire in the library?"
"Yes, ma'am -- but she looks such a tinkler."
"Cease that chatter, blockhead!  and do my bidding."
Again Sam vanished; and mystery, animation, expectation rose to
full flow once more.
"She's ready now," said the footman, as he reappeared.  "She wishes
to know who will be her first visitor."
"I think I had better just look in upon her before any of the ladies
go," said Colonel Dent.
"Tell her, Sam, a gentleman is coming."
Sam went and returned.
"She says, sir, that she'll have no gentlemen; they need not
trouble themselves to come near her; nor," he added, with difficulty
suppressing a titter, "any ladies either, except the young, and
single."
"By Jove, she has taste!"  exclaimed Henry Lynn.
Miss Ingram rose solemnly:  "I go first," she said, in a tone which
might have befitted the leader of a forlorn hope, mounting a breach
in the van of his men.
"Oh, my best!  oh, my dearest!  pause -- reflect!"  was her mama's
cry; but she swept past her in stately silence, passed through
the door which Colonel Dent held open, and we heard her enter the
library.
A comparative silence ensued.  Lady Ingram thought it "le cas" to
wring her hands:  which she did accordingly.  Miss Mary declared
she felt, for her part, she never dared venture.  Amy and Louisa
Eshton tittered under their breath, and looked a little frightened.
The minutes passed very slowly:  fifteen were counted before the
library-door again opened.  Miss Ingram returned to us through the
arch.
Would she laugh?  Would she take it as a joke?  All eyes met her
with a glance of eager curiosity, and she met all eyes with one of
rebuff and coldness; she looked neither flurried nor merry:  she
walked stiffly to her seat, and took it in silence.
"Well, Blanche?"  said Lord Ingram.
"What did she say, sister?"  asked Mary.
"What did you think?  How do you feel? -- Is she a real fortune-teller?"
demanded the Misses Eshton.
"Now, now, good people," returned Miss Ingram, "don't press upon
me.  Really your organs of wonder and credulity are easily excited:
you seem, by the importance of you all -- my good mama included
-- ascribe to this matter, absolutely to believe we have a genuine
witch in the house, who is in close alliance with the old gentleman.
I have seen a gipsy vagabond; she has practised in hackneyed fashion
the science of palmistry and told me what such people usually tell.
My whim is gratified; and now I think Mr. Eshton will do well to
put the hag in the stocks to-morrow morning, as he threatened."
Miss Ingram took a book, leant back in her chair, and so declined
further conversation.  I watched her for nearly half-an-hour:  during
all that time she never turned a page, and her face grew momently
darker, more dissatisfied, and more sourly expressive of disappointment.
She had obviously not heard anything to her advantage:  and it
seemed to me, from her prolonged fit of gloom and taciturnity, that
she herself, notwithstanding her professed indifference, attached
undue importance to whatever revelations had been made her.
Meantime, Mary Ingram, Amy and Louisa Eshton, declared they dared
not go alone; and yet they all wished to go.  A negotiation was opened
through the medium of the ambassador, Sam; and after much pacing
to and fro, till, I think, the said Sam's calves must have ached
with the exercise, permission was at last, with great difficulty,
extorted from the rigorous Sibyl, for the three to wait upon her
in a body.
Their visit was not so still as Miss Ingram's had been:  we heard
hysterical giggling and little shrieks proceeding from the library;
and at the end of about twenty minutes they burst the door open,
and came running across the hall, as if they were half-scared out
of their wits.
"I am sure she is something not right!"  they cried, one and all.
"She told us such things!  She knows all about us!"  and they sank
breathless into the various seats the gentlemen hastened to bring
them.
