
"You have learned them from the servants."
"Ah!  you think yourself sharp.  Well, perhaps I have:  to speak
truth, I have an acquaintance with one of them, Mrs. Poole -- "
I started to my feet when I heard the name.
"You have -- have you?"  thought I; "there is diablerie in the
business after all, then!"
"Don't be alarmed," continued the strange being; "she's a safe
hand is Mrs. Poole:  close and quiet; any one may repose confidence
in her.  But, as I was saying:  sitting in that window-seat, do
you think of nothing but your future school?  Have you no present
interest in any of the company who occupy the sofas and chairs
before you?  Is there not one face you study?  one figure whose
movements you follow with at least curiosity?"
"I like to observe all the faces and all the figures."
"But do you never single one from the rest -- or it may be, two?"
"I do frequently; when the gestures or looks of a pair seem telling
a tale:  it amuses me to watch them."
"What tale do you like best to hear?"
"Oh, I have not much choice!  They generally run on the same theme
-- courtship; and promise to end in the same catastrophe -- marriage."
"And do you like that monotonous theme?"
"Positively, I don't care about it:  it is nothing to me."
"Nothing to you?  When a lady, young and full of life and
health, charming with beauty and endowed with the gifts of rank
and fortune, sits and smiles in the eyes of a gentleman you -- "
"I what?"
"You know -- and perhaps think well of."
"I don't know the gentlemen here.  I have scarcely interchanged
a syllable with one of them; and as to thinking well of them, I
consider some respectable, and stately, and middle-aged, and others
young, dashing, handsome, and lively:  but certainly they are all
at liberty to be the recipients of whose smiles they please, without
my feeling disposed to consider the transaction of any moment to
me."
"You don't know the gentlemen here?  You have not exchanged a
syllable with one of them?  Will you say that of the master of the
house!"
"He is not at home."
"A profound remark!  A most ingenious quibble!  He went to Millcote
this morning, and will be back here to-night or to-morrow:  does
that circumstance exclude him from the list of your acquaintance
-- blot him, as it were, out of existence?"
"No; but I can scarcely see what Mr. Rochester has to do with the
theme you had introduced."
"I was talking of ladies smiling in the eyes of gentlemen; and of
late so many smiles have been shed into Mr. Rochester's eyes that
they overflow like two cups filled above the brim:  have you never
remarked that?"
"Mr. Rochester has a right to enjoy the society of his guests."
"No question about his right:  but have you never observed that,
of all the tales told here about matrimony, Mr. Rochester has been
favoured with the most lively and the most continuous?"
"The eagerness of a listener quickens the tongue of a narrator."  I
said this rather to myself than to the gipsy, whose strange talk,
voice, manner, had by this time wrapped me in a kind of dream.  One
unexpected sentence came from her lips after another, till I got
involved in a web of mystification; and wondered what unseen spirit
had been sitting for weeks by my heart watching its workings and
taking record of every pulse.
"Eagerness of a listener!"  repeated she:  "yes; Mr. Rochester has
sat by the hour, his ear inclined to the fascinating lips that took
such delight in their task of communicating; and Mr. Rochester was
so willing to receive and looked so grateful for the pastime given
him; you have noticed this?"
"Grateful!  I cannot remember detecting gratitude in his face."
"Detecting!  You have analysed, then.  And what did you detect, if
not gratitude?"
I said nothing.
"You have seen love:  have you not? -- and, looking forward, you
have seen him married, and beheld his bride happy?"
"Humph!  Not exactly.  Your witch's skill is rather at fault
sometimes."
"What the devil have you seen, then?"
"Never mind:  I came here to inquire, not to confess.  Is it known
that Mr. Rochester is to be married?"
"Yes; and to the beautiful Miss Ingram."
"Shortly?"
"Appearances would warrant that conclusion:  and, no doubt (though,
with an audacity that wants chastising out of you, you seem to
question it), they will be a superlatively happy pair.  He must
love such a handsome, noble, witty, accomplished lady; and probably
she loves him, or, if not his person, at least his purse.  I know
she considers the Rochester estate eligible to the last degree;
though (God pardon me!) I told her something on that point about
an hour ago which made her look wondrous grave:  the corners of her
mouth fell half an inch.  I would advise her blackaviced suitor to
look out:  if another comes, with a longer or clearer rent-roll,
-- he's dished -- "
"But, mother, I did not come to hear Mr. Rochester's fortune:  I
came to hear my own; and you have told me nothing of it."
"Your fortune is yet doubtful:  when I examined your face, one trait
contradicted another.  Chance has meted you a measure of happiness:
that I know.  I knew it before I came here this evening.  She has
laid it carefully on one side for you.  I saw her do it.  It depends
on yourself to stretch out your hand, and take it up:  but whether
you will do so, is the problem I study.  Kneel again on the rug."
"Don't keep me long; the fire scorches me."
I knelt.  She did not stoop towards me, but only gazed,
leaning back in her chair.  She began muttering, -
"The flame flickers in the eye; the eye shines like dew; it looks
soft and full of feeling; it smiles at my jargon:  it is susceptible;
impression follows impression through its clear sphere; where it
ceases to smile, it is sad; an unconscious lassitude weighs on the
lid:  that signifies melancholy resulting from loneliness.  It turns
from me; it will not suffer further scrutiny; it seems to deny,
by a mocking glance, the truth of the discoveries I have already
made, -- to disown the charge both of sensibility and chagrin:
its pride and reserve only confirm me in my opinion.  The eye is
favourable.
"As to the mouth, it delights at times in laughter; it is disposed
to impart all that the brain conceives; though I daresay it would
be silent on much the heart experiences.  Mobile and flexible,
it was never intended to be compressed in the eternal silence of
solitude:  it is a mouth which should speak much and smile often,
and have human affection for its interlocutor.  That feature too
is propitious.
"I see no enemy to a fortunate issue but in the brow; and that
brow professes to say, -- 'I can live alone, if self-respect, and
circumstances require me so to do.  I need not sell my soul to buy
bliss.  I have an inward treasure born with me, which can keep me
alive if all extraneous delights should be withheld, or offered
only at a price I cannot afford to give.'  The forehead declares,
'Reason sits firm and holds the reins, and she will not let the
feelings burst away and hurry her to wild chasms.  The passions may
rage furiously, like true heathens, as they are; and the desires
may imagine all sorts of vain things:  but judgment shall still
have the last word in every argument, and the casting vote in
every decision.  Strong wind, earthquake-shock, and fire may pass
by:  but I shall follow the guiding of that still small voice which
interprets the dictates of conscience.'
"Well said, forehead; your declaration shall be respected.  I have
formed my plans -- right plans I deem them -- and in them I have
attended to the claims of conscience, the counsels of reason.  I
know how soon youth would fade and bloom perish, if, in the cup
of bliss offered, but one dreg of shame, or one flavour of remorse
were detected; and I do not want sacrifice, sorrow, dissolution --
such is not my taste.  I wish to foster, not to blight -- to earn
gratitude, not to wring tears of blood -- no, nor of brine:  my
harvest must be in smiles, in endearments, in sweet -- That will
do.  I think I rave in a kind of exquisite delirium.  I should wish
now to protract this moment ad infinitum; but I dare not.  So far
I have governed myself thoroughly.  I have acted as I inwardly swore
I would act; but further might try me beyond my strength.  Rise,
Miss Eyre:  leave me; the play is played out'."
Where was I? Did I wake or sleep?  Had I been dreaming?  Did I
dream still?  The old woman's voice had changed:  her accent, her
gesture, and all were familiar to me as my own face in a glass
-- as the speech of my own tongue.  I got up, but did not go.  I
looked; I stirred the fire, and I looked again:  but she drew her
bonnet and her bandage closer about her face, and again beckoned me
to depart.  The flame illuminated her hand stretched out:  roused
now, and on the alert for discoveries, I at once noticed that
hand.  It was no more the withered limb of eld than my own; it was
a rounded supple member, with smooth fingers, symmetrically turned;
a broad ring flashed on the little finger, and stooping forward,
I looked at it, and saw a gem I had seen a hundred times before.
Again I looked at the face; which was no longer turned from me --
on the contrary, the bonnet was doffed, the bandage displaced, the
head advanced.
"Well, Jane, do you know me?"  asked the familiar voice.
"Only take off the red cloak, sir, and then -- "
"But the string is in a knot -- help me."
"Break it, sir."
"There, then -- 'Off, ye lendings!'"  And Mr. Rochester stepped
out of his disguise.
"Now, sir, what a strange idea!"
