
"I could dare it for the sake of any friend who deserved my adherence;
as you, I am sure, do."
"Go back now into the room; step quietly up to Mason, and whisper
in his ear that Mr. Rochester is come and wishes to see him:  show
him in here and then leave me."
"Yes, sir."
I did his behest.  The company all stared at me as I passed straight
among them.  I sought Mr. Mason, delivered the message, and preceded
him from the room:  I ushered him into the library, and then I went
upstairs.
At a late hour, after I had been in bed some time, I heard the
visitors repair to their chambers:  I distinguished Mr. Rochester's
voice, and heard him say, "This way, Mason; this is your room."
He spoke cheerfully:  the gay tones set my heart at ease.  I was
soon asleep.
CHAPTER XX
I had forgotten to draw my curtain, which I usually did, and also
to let down my window-blind.  The consequence was, that when the
moon, which was full and bright (for the night was fine), came in
her course to that space in the sky opposite my casement, and looked
in at me through the unveiled panes, her glorious gaze roused me.
Awaking in the dead of night, I opened my eyes on her disk --
silver-white and crystal clear.  It was beautiful, but too solemn;
I half rose, and stretched my arm to draw the curtain.
Good God!  What a cry!
The night -- its silence -- its rest, was rent in twain by a savage,
a sharp, a shrilly sound that ran from end to end of Thornfield
Hall.
My pulse stopped:  my heart stood still; my stretched arm was
paralysed.  The cry died, and was not renewed.  Indeed, whatever
being uttered that fearful shriek could not soon repeat it:  not
the widest-winged condor on the Andes could, twice in succession,
send out such a yell from the cloud shrouding his eyrie.  The thing
delivering such utterance must rest ere it could repeat the effort.
It came out of the third storey; for it passed overhead.  And
overhead -- yes, in the room just above my chamber-ceiling -- I now
heard a struggle:  a deadly one it seemed from the noise;
and a half-smothered voice shouted -
"Help!  help!  help!"  three times rapidly.
"Will no one come?"  it cried; and then, while the staggering and
stamping went on wildly, I distinguished through plank and plaster:-
"Rochester!  Rochester!  for God's sake, come!"
A chamber-door opened:  some one ran, or rushed, along the gallery.
Another step stamped on the flooring above and something fell; and
there was silence.
I had put on some clothes, though horror shook all my limbs; I issued
from my apartment.  The sleepers were all aroused:  ejaculations,
terrified murmurs sounded in every room; door after door unclosed;
one looked out and another looked out; the gallery filled.  Gentlemen
and ladies alike had quitted their beds; and "Oh!  what is it?" --
"Who is hurt?" -- "What has happened?" -- "Fetch a light!" -- "Is
it fire?" -- "Are there robbers?" -- "Where shall we run?"  was
demanded confusedly on all hands.  But for the moonlight they would
have been in complete darkness.  They ran to and fro; they crowded
together:  some sobbed, some stumbled:  the confusion was inextricable.
"Where the devil is Rochester?"  cried Colonel Dent.  "I cannot
find him in his bed."
"Here!  here!"  was shouted in return.  "Be composed, all of you:
I'm coming."
And the door at the end of the gallery opened, and Mr. Rochester
advanced with a candle:  he had just descended from the upper storey.
One of the ladies ran to him directly; she seized his arm:  it was
Miss Ingram.
"What awful event has taken place?"  said she.  "Speak!  let us
know the worst at once!"
"But don't pull me down or strangle me," he replied:  for the Misses
Eshton were clinging about him now; and the two dowagers, in vast
white wrappers, were bearing down on him like ships in full sail.
"All's right! -- all's right!"  he cried.  "It's a mere rehearsal of
Much Ado about Nothing.  Ladies, keep off, or I shall wax dangerous."
And dangerous he looked:  his black eyes darted sparks.  Calming
himself by an effort, he added -
"A servant has had the nightmare; that is all.  She's an excitable,
nervous person:  she construed her dream into an apparition, or
something of that sort, no doubt; and has taken a fit with fright.
Now, then, I must see you all back into your rooms; for, till the
house is settled, she cannot be looked after.  Gentlemen, have the
goodness to set the ladies the example.  Miss Ingram, I am sure
you will not fail in evincing superiority to idle terrors.  Amy and
Louisa, return to your nests like a pair of doves, as you are.
Mesdames" (to the dowagers), "you will take cold to a dead certainty,
if you stay in this chill gallery any longer."
And so, by dint of alternate coaxing and commanding, he contrived
to get them all once more enclosed in their separate dormitories.
I did not wait to be ordered back to mine, but retreated unnoticed,
as unnoticed I had left it.
Not, however, to go to bed:  on the contrary, I began and dressed
myself carefully.  The sounds I had heard after the scream, and the
words that had been uttered, had probably been heard only by me;
for they had proceeded from the room above mine:  but they assured
me that it was not a servant's dream which had thus struck horror
through the house; and that the explanation Mr. Rochester had given
was merely an invention framed to pacify his guests.  I dressed,
then, to be ready for emergencies.  When dressed, I sat a long
time by the window looking out over the silent grounds and silvered
fields and waiting for I knew not what.  It seemed to me that some
event must follow the strange cry, struggle, and call.
No:  stillness returned:  each murmur and movement ceased gradually,
and in about an hour Thornfield Hall was again as hushed as a
desert.  It seemed that sleep and night had resumed their empire.
Meantime the moon declined:  she was about to set.  Not liking to
sit in the cold and darkness, I thought I would lie down on my bed,
dressed as I was.  I left the window, and moved with little noise
across the carpet; as I stooped to take off my shoes, a cautious
hand tapped low at the door.
"Am I wanted?"  I asked.
"Are you up?"  asked the voice I expected to hear, viz., my master's.
"Yes, sir."
"And dressed?"
"Yes."
"Come out, then, quietly."
I obeyed.  Mr. Rochester stood in the gallery holding a light.
"I want you," he said:  "come this way:  take your time, and make
no noise."
My slippers were thin:  I could walk the matted floor as softly as
a cat.  He glided up the gallery and up the stairs, and stopped in
the dark, low corridor of the fateful third storey:  I had followed
and stood at his side.
"Have you a sponge in your room?"  he asked in a whisper.
"Yes, sir."
"Have you any salts -- volatile salts?"
"Yes."
"Go back and fetch both."
I returned, sought the sponge on the washstand, the salts in my
drawer, and once more retraced my steps.  He still waited; he held
a key in his hand:  approaching one of the small, black doors, he
put it in the lock; he paused, and addressed me again.
"You don't turn sick at the sight of blood?"
"I think I shall not:  I have never been tried yet."
I felt a thrill while I answered him; but no coldness, and no
faintness.
"Just give me your hand," he said:  "it will not do to risk a
fainting fit."
