
I put my fingers into his.  "Warm and steady," was his remark:  he
turned the key and opened the door.
I saw a room I remembered to have seen before, the day Mrs.
Fairfax showed me over the house:  it was hung with tapestry; but
the tapestry was now looped up in one part, and there was a door
apparent, which had then been concealed.  This door was open;
a light shone out of the room within:  I heard thence a snarling,
snatching sound, almost like a dog quarrelling.  Mr. Rochester,
putting down his candle, said to me, "Wait a minute," and he went
forward to the inner apartment.  A shout of laughter greeted his
entrance; noisy at first, and terminating in Grace Poole's own goblin
ha!  ha!  SHE then was there.  He made some sort of arrangement
without speaking, though I heard a low voice address him:  he came
out and closed the door behind him.
"Here, Jane!"  he said; and I walked round to the other side of a
large bed, which with its drawn curtains concealed a considerable
portion of the chamber.  An easy-chair was near the bed-head:  a
man sat in it, dressed with the exception of his coat; he was still;
his head leant back; his eyes were closed.  Mr. Rochester held the
candle over him; I recognised in his pale and seemingly lifeless
face -- the stranger, Mason:  I saw too that his linen on one side,
and one arm, was almost soaked in blood.
"Hold the candle," said Mr. Rochester, and I took it:  he fetched
a basin of water from the washstand:  "Hold that," said he.  I
obeyed.  He took the sponge, dipped it in, and moistened the
corpse-like face; he asked for my smelling-bottle, and applied it
to the nostrils.  Mr. Mason shortly unclosed his eyes; he groaned.
Mr. Rochester opened the shirt of the wounded man, whose arm and
shoulder were bandaged:  he sponged away blood, trickling fast
down.
"Is there immediate danger?"  murmured Mr. Mason.
"Pooh!  No -- a mere scratch.  Don't be so overcome, man:  bear
up!  I'll fetch a surgeon for you now, myself:  you'll be able to
be removed by morning, I hope.  Jane," he continued.
"Sir?"
"I shall have to leave you in this room with this gentleman, for
an hour, or perhaps two hours:  you will sponge the blood as I
do when it returns:  if he feels faint, you will put the glass of
water on that stand to his lips, and your salts to his nose.  You
will not speak to him on any pretext -- and -- Richard, it will be
at the peril of your life if you speak to her:  open your lips --
agitate yourself- -and I'll not answer for the consequences."
Again the poor man groaned; he looked as if he dared not move; fear,
either of death or of something else, appeared almost to paralyse
him.  Mr. Rochester put the now bloody sponge into my hand, and
I proceeded to use it as he had done.  He watched me a second,
then saying, "Remember! -- No conversation," he left the room.  I
experienced a strange feeling as the key grated in the lock, and
the sound of his retreating step ceased to be heard.
Here then I was in the third storey, fastened into one of its mystic
cells; night around me; a pale and bloody spectacle under my eyes
and hands; a murderess hardly separated from me by a single door:
yes -- that was appalling -- the rest I could bear; but I shuddered
at the thought of Grace Poole bursting out upon me.
I must keep to my post, however.  I must watch this ghastly
countenance -- these blue, still lips forbidden to unclose --
these eyes now shut, now opening, now wandering through the room,
now fixing on me, and ever glazed with the dulness of horror.  I must
dip my hand again and again in the basin of blood and water, and
wipe away the trickling gore.  I must see the light of the unsnuffed
candle wane on my employment; the shadows darken on the wrought,
antique tapestry round me, and grow black under the hangings of
the vast old bed, and quiver strangely over the doors of a great
cabinet opposite -- whose front, divided into twelve panels, bore,
in grim design, the heads of the twelve apostles, each enclosed in
its separate panel as in a frame; while above them at the top rose
an ebon crucifix and a dying Christ.
According as the shifting obscurity and flickering gleam hovered
here or glanced there, it was now the bearded physician, Luke,
that bent his brow; now St. John's long hair that waved; and anon
the devilish face of Judas, that grew out of the panel, and seemed
gathering life and threatening a revelation of the arch-traitor --
of Satan himself -- in his subordinate's form.
Amidst all this, I had to listen as well as watch:  to listen for
the movements of the wild beast or the fiend in yonder side den.
But since Mr. Rochester's visit it seemed spellbound:  all the
night I heard but three sounds at three long intervals, -- a step
creak, a momentary renewal of the snarling, canine noise, and a
deep human groan.
Then my own thoughts worried me.  What crime was this that lived
incarnate in this sequestered mansion, and could neither be expelled
nor subdued by the owner? -- what mystery, that broke out now in
fire and now in blood, at the deadest hours of night?  What creature
was it, that, masked in an ordinary woman's face and shape, uttered
the voice, now of a mocking demon, and anon of a carrion-seeking
bird of prey?
And this man I bent over -- this commonplace, quiet stranger --
how had he become involved in the web of horror?  and why had the
Fury flown at him?  What made him seek this quarter of the house
at an untimely season, when he should have been asleep in bed?  I
had heard Mr. Rochester assign him an apartment below -- what
brought him here!  And why, now, was he so tame under the violence
or treachery done him?  Why did he so quietly submit to the
concealment Mr. Rochester enforced?  Why DID Mr. Rochester enforce
this concealment?  His guest had been outraged, his own life
on a former occasion had been hideously plotted against; and both
attempts he smothered in secrecy and sank in oblivion!  Lastly, I
saw Mr. Mason was submissive to Mr. Rochester; that the impetuous
will of the latter held complete sway over the inertness of the
former:  the few words which had passed between them assured me of
this.  It was evident that in their former intercourse, the passive
disposition of the one had been habitually influenced by the active
energy of the other:  whence then had arisen Mr. Rochester's dismay
when he heard of Mr. Mason's arrival?  Why had the mere name of
this unresisting individual -- whom his word now sufficed to control
like a child -- fallen on him, a few hours since, as a thunderbolt
might fall on an oak?
Oh!  I could not forget his look and his paleness when he whispered:
"Jane, I have got a blow -- I have got a blow, Jane."  I could not
forget how the arm had trembled which he rested on my shoulder:
and it was no light matter which could thus bow the resolute spirit
and thrill the vigorous frame of Fairfax Rochester.
"When will he come?  When will he come?"  I cried inwardly, as
the night lingered and lingered -- as my bleeding patient drooped,
moaned, sickened:  and neither day nor aid arrived.  I had, again
and again, held the water to Mason's white lips; again and again
offered him the stimulating salts:  my efforts seemed ineffectual:
either bodily or mental suffering, or loss of blood, or all three
combined, were fast prostrating his strength.  He moaned so, and
looked so weak, wild, and lost, I feared he was dying; and I might
not even speak to him.
The candle, wasted at last, went out; as it expired, I perceived
streaks of grey light edging the window curtains:  dawn was
then approaching.  Presently I heard Pilot bark far below, out of
his distant kennel in the courtyard:  hope revived.  Nor was it
unwarranted:  in five minutes more the grating key, the yielding
lock, warned me my watch was relieved.  It could not have lasted
more than two hours:  many a week has seemed shorter.
Mr. Rochester entered, and with him the surgeon he had been to
fetch.
"Now, Carter, be on the alert," he said to this last:  "I give you
but half-an-hour for dressing the wound, fastening the bandages,
getting the patient downstairs and all."
"But is he fit to move, sir?"
"No doubt of it; it is nothing serious; he is nervous, his spirits
must be kept up.  Come, set to work."
Mr. Rochester drew back the thick curtain, drew up the holland
blind, let in all the daylight he could; and I was surprised and
cheered to see how far dawn was advanced:  what rosy streaks were
beginning to brighten the east.  Then he approached Mason, whom
the surgeon was already handling.
"Now, my good fellow, how are you?"  he asked.
"She's done for me, I fear," was the faint reply.
"Not a whit! -- courage!  This day fortnight you'll hardly be a pin
the worse of it:  you've lost a little blood; that's all.  Carter,
assure him there's no danger."
"I can do that conscientiously," said Carter, who had now undone
the bandages; "only I wish I could have got here sooner:  he would
not have bled so much -- but how is this?  The flesh on the shoulder
is torn as well as cut.  This wound was not done with a knife:
there have been teeth here!"
"She bit me," he murmured.  "She worried me like a tigress, when
Rochester got the knife from her."
"You should not have yielded:  you should have grappled with her
at once," said Mr. Rochester.
"But under such circumstances, what could one do?"  returned Mason.
"Oh, it was frightful!"  he added, shuddering.  "And I did not
expect it:  she looked so quiet at first."
"I warned you," was his friend's answer; "I said -- be on your
guard when you go near her.  Besides, you might have waited till
to- morrow, and had me with you:  it was mere folly to attempt the
interview to-night, and alone."
"I thought I could have done some good."
"You thought!  you thought!  Yes, it makes me impatient to hear
you:  but, however, you have suffered, and are likely to suffer
enough for not taking my advice; so I'll say no more.  Carter --
hurry! -- hurry!  The sun will soon rise, and I must have him off."
"Directly, sir; the shoulder is just bandaged.  I must look to this
other wound in the arm:  she has had her teeth here too, I think."
"She sucked the blood:  she said she'd drain my heart," said Mason.
I saw Mr. Rochester shudder:  a singularly marked expression of disgust,
horror, hatred, warped his countenance almost to distortion;
but he only said -
"Come, be silent, Richard, and never mind her gibberish:  don't
repeat it."
"I wish I could forget it," was the answer.
"You will when you are out of the country:  when you get back to
Spanish Town, you may think of her as dead and buried -- or rather,
you need not think of her at all."
"Impossible to forget this night!"
"It is not impossible:  have some energy, man.  You thought you
were as dead as a herring two hours since, and you are all alive
and talking now.  There! -- Carter has done with you or nearly so;
I'll make you decent in a trice.  Jane" (he turned to me for the
first time since his re-entrance), "take this key:  go down into
my bedroom, and walk straight forward into my dressing-room:  open
the top drawer of the wardrobe and take out a clean shirt and
neck-handkerchief:  bring them here; and be nimble."
I went; sought the repository he had mentioned, found the articles
named, and returned with them.
"Now," said he, "go to the other side of the bed while I order his
toilet; but don't leave the room:  you may be wanted again."
I retired as directed.
"Was anybody stirring below when you went down, Jane?"  inquired
Mr. Rochester presently.
"No, sir; all was very still."
"We shall get you off cannily, Dick:  and it will be better, both
for your sake, and for that of the poor creature in yonder.  I have
striven long to avoid exposure, and I should not like it to come
at last.  Here, Carter, help him on with his waist-coat.  Where
did you leave your furred cloak?  You can't travel a mile without
that, I know, in this damned cold climate.  In your room? -- Jane,
run down to Mr. Mason's room, -- the one next mine, -- and fetch
a cloak you will see there."
Again I ran, and again returned, bearing an immense mantle lined
and edged with fur.
"Now, I've another errand for you," said my untiring master; "you
must away to my room again.  What a mercy you are shod with velvet,
Jane! -- a clod-hopping messenger would never do at this juncture.
You must open the middle drawer of my toilet-table and take out a
little phial and a little glass you will find there, -- quick!"
I flew thither and back, bringing the desired vessels.
