
"That's well!  Now, doctor, I shall take the liberty of administering
a dose myself, on my own responsibility.  I got this cordial at
Rome, of an Italian charlatan -- a fellow you would have kicked,
Carter.  It is not a thing to be used indiscriminately, but it is
good upon occasion:  as now, for instance.  Jane, a little water."
He held out the tiny glass, and I half filled it from the water-bottle
on the washstand.
"That will do; -- now wet the lip of the phial."
I did so; he measured twelve drops of a crimson liquid, and presented
it to Mason.
"Drink, Richard:  it will give you the heart you lack, for an hour
or so."
"But will it hurt me? -- is it inflammatory?"
"Drink!  drink!  drink!"
Mr. Mason obeyed, because it was evidently useless to resist.  He
was dressed now:  he still looked pale, but he was no longer gory
and sullied.  Mr. Rochester let him sit three minutes after
he had swallowed the liquid; he then took his arm -
"Now I am sure you can get on your feet," he said -- "try."
The patient rose.
"Carter, take him under the other shoulder.  Be of good cheer,
Richard; step out -- that's it!"
"I do feel better," remarked Mr. Mason.
"I am sure you do.  Now, Jane, trip on before us away to the
backstairs; unbolt the side-passage door, and tell the driver of
the post-chaise you will see in the yard -- or just outside, for I
told him not to drive his rattling wheels over the pavement -- to
be ready; we are coming:  and, Jane, if any one is about, come to
the foot of the stairs and hem."
It was by this time half-past five, and the sun was on the point of
rising; but I found the kitchen still dark and silent.  The side-
passage door was fastened; I opened it with as little noise as
possible:  all the yard was quiet; but the gates stood wide open,
and there was a post-chaise, with horses ready harnessed, and driver
seated on the box, stationed outside.  I approached him, and said
the gentlemen were coming; he nodded:  then I looked carefully round
and listened.  The stillness of early morning slumbered everywhere;
the curtains were yet drawn over the servants' chamber windows;
little birds were just twittering in the blossom-blanched orchard
trees, whose boughs drooped like white garlands over the wall
enclosing one side of the yard; the carriage horses stamped from
time to time in their closed stables:  all else was still.
The gentlemen now appeared.  Mason, supported by Mr. Rochester and
the surgeon, seemed to walk with tolerable ease:  they assisted
him into the chaise; Carter followed.
"Take care of him," said Mr. Rochester to the latter, "and keep
him at your house till he is quite well:  I shall ride over in a
day or two to see how he gets on.  Richard, how is it with you?"
"The fresh air revives me, Fairfax."
"Leave the window open on his side, Carter; there is no wind --
good- bye, Dick."
"Fairfax -- "
"Well what is it?"
"Let her be taken care of; let her be treated as tenderly as may
be:  let her -- " he stopped and burst into tears.
"I do my best; and have done it, and will do it," was the answer:
he shut up the chaise door, and the vehicle drove away.
"Yet would to God there was an end of all this!"  added Mr. Rochester,
as he closed and barred the heavy yard-gates.
This done, he moved with slow step and abstracted air towards a
door in the wall bordering the orchard.  I, supposing he had done
with me, prepared to return to the house; again, however, I heard
him call "Jane!"  He had opened feel portal and stood at it, waiting
for me.
"Come where there is some freshness, for a few moments," he said;
"that house is a mere dungeon:  don't you feel it so?"
"It seems to me a splendid mansion, sir."
"The glamour of inexperience is over your eyes," he answered; "and
you see it through a charmed medium:  you cannot discern that the
gilding is slime and the silk draperies cobwebs; that the marble
is sordid slate, and the polished woods mere refuse chips and scaly
bark.  Now HERE" (he pointed to the leafy enclosure we had entered)
"all is real, sweet, and pure."
He strayed down a walk edged with box, with apple trees, pear trees,
and cherry trees on one side, and a border on the other full of all
sorts of old-fashioned flowers, stocks, sweet-williams, primroses,
pansies, mingled with southernwood, sweet-briar, and various fragrant
herbs.  They were fresh now as a succession of April showers and
gleams, followed by a lovely spring morning, could make them:  the
sun was just entering the dappled east, and his light illumined
the wreathed and dewy orchard trees and shone down the quiet walks
under them.
"Jane, will you have a flower?"
He gathered a half-blown rose, the first on the bush, and offered
it to me.
"Thank you, sir."
"Do you like this sunrise, Jane?  That sky with its high and light
clouds which are sure to melt away as the day waxes warm -- this
placid and balmly atmosphere?"
"I do, very much."
"You have passed a strange night, Jane."
"Yes, sir."
"And it has made you look pale -- were you afraid when I left you
alone with Mason?"
"I was afraid of some one coming out of the inner room."
"But I had fastened the door -- I had the key in my pocket:  I should
have been a careless shepherd if I had left a lamb -- my pet lamb
-- so near a wolf's den, unguarded:  you were safe."
"Will Grace Poole live here still, sir?"
"Oh yes!  don't trouble your head about her -- put the thing out
of your thoughts."
"Yet it seems to me your life is hardly secure while she stays."
"Never fear -- I will take care of myself."
"Is the danger you apprehended last night gone by now, sir?"
"I cannot vouch for that till Mason is out of England:  nor even
then.  To live, for me, Jane, is to stand on a crater-crust which
may crack and spue fire any day."
"But Mr. Mason seems a man easily led.  Your influence, sir, is
evidently potent with him:  he will never set you at defiance or
wilfully injure you."
"Oh, no!  Mason will not defy me; nor, knowing it, will he hurt
me -- but, unintentionally, he might in a moment, by one careless
word, deprive me, if not of life, yet for ever of happiness."
"Tell him to be cautious, sir:  let him know what you fear, and
show him how to avert the danger."
He laughed sardonically, hastily took my hand, and as hastily threw
it from him.
"If I could do that, simpleton, where would the danger be?  Annihilated
in a moment.  Ever since I have known Mason, I have only had to say
to him 'Do that,' and the thing has been done.  But I cannot give
him orders in this case:  I cannot say 'Beware of harming me,
Richard;' for it is imperative that I should keep him ignorant that
harm to me is possible.  Now you look puzzled; and I will puzzle
you further.  You are my little friend, are you not?"
"I like to serve you, sir, and to obey you in all that is right."
