
"Precisely:  I see you do.  I see genuine contentment in your gait
and mien, your eye and face, when you are helping me and pleasing
me -- working for me, and with me, in, as you characteristically
say, 'ALL THAT IS RIGHT:' for if I bid you do what you thought wrong,
there would be no light-footed running, no neat-handed alacrity, no
lively glance and animated complexion.  My friend would then turn
to me, quiet and pale, and would say, 'No, sir; that is impossible:
I cannot do it, because it is wrong;' and would become immutable
as a fixed star.  Well, you too have power over me, and may injure
me:  yet I dare not show you where I am vulnerable, lest, faithful
and friendly as you are, you should transfix me at once."
"If you have no more to fear from Mr. Mason than you have from me,
sir, you are very safe."
"God grant it may be so!  Here, Jane, is an arbour; sit down."
The arbour was an arch in the wall, lined with ivy; it contained
a rustic seat.  Mr. Rochester took it, leaving room, however, for
me:  but I stood before him.
"Sit," he said; "the bench is long enough for two.  You don't
hesitate to take a place at my side, do you?  Is that wrong, Jane?"
I answered him by assuming it:  to refuse would, I felt, have been
unwise.
"Now, my little friend, while the sun drinks the dew -- while all
the flowers in this old garden awake and expand, and the birds
fetch their young ones' breakfast out of the Thornfield, and the
early bees do their first spell of work -- I'll put a case to you,
which you must endeavour to suppose your own:  but first, look
at me, and tell me you are at ease, and not fearing that I err in
detaining you, or that you err in staying."
"No, sir; I am content."
"Well then, Jane, call to aid your fancy:- suppose you were no
longer a girl well reared and disciplined, but a wild boy indulged
from childhood upwards; imagine yourself in a remote foreign land;
conceive that you there commit a capital error, no matter of what
nature or from what motives, but one whose consequences must follow
you through life and taint all your existence.  Mind, I don't say
a CRIME; I am not speaking of shedding of blood or any other guilty
act, which might make the perpetrator amenable to the law:  my word
is ERROR. The results of what you have done become in time to you
utterly insupportable; you take measures to obtain relief:  unusual
measures, but neither unlawful nor culpable.  Still you are
miserable; for hope has quitted you on the very confines of life:
your sun at noon darkens in an eclipse, which you feel will not
leave it till the time of setting.  Bitter and base associations
have become the sole food of your memory:  you wander here and
there, seeking rest in exile:  happiness in pleasure -- I mean in
heartless, sensual pleasure -- such as dulls intellect and blights
feeling.  Heart-weary and soul-withered, you come home after years
of voluntary banishment:  you make a new acquaintance -- how or
where no matter:  you find in this stranger much of the good and
bright qualities which you have sought for twenty years, and never
before encountered; and they are all fresh, healthy, without soil
and without taint.  Such society revives, regenerates:  you feel
better days come back -- higher wishes, purer feelings; you desire
to recommence your life, and to spend what remains to you of days
in a way more worthy of an immortal being.  To attain this end,
are you justified in overleaping an obstacle of custom -- a mere
conventional impediment which neither your conscience sanctifies
nor your judgment approves?"
He paused for an answer:  and what was I to say?  Oh, for some
good spirit to suggest a judicious and satisfactory response!  Vain
aspiration!  The west wind whispered in the ivy round me; but no
gentle Ariel borrowed its breath as a medium of speech:  the birds
sang in the tree-tops; but their song, however sweet, was inarticulate.
Again Mr. Rochester propounded his query:
"Is the wandering and sinful, but now rest-seeking and repentant,
man justified in daring the world's opinion, in order to attach
to him for ever this gentle, gracious, genial stranger, thereby
securing his own peace of mind and regeneration of life?"
"Sir," I answered, "a wanderer's repose or a sinner's reformation
should never depend on a fellow-creature.  Men and women die;
philosophers falter in wisdom, and Christians in goodness:  if any
one you know has suffered and erred, let him look higher than his
equals for strength to amend and solace to heal."
"But the instrument -- the instrument!  God, who does the work,
ordains the instrument.  I have myself -- I tell it you without
parable -- been a worldly, dissipated, restless man; and
I believe I have found the instrument for my cure in -- "
He paused:  the birds went on carolling, the leaves lightly rustling.
I almost wondered they did not check their songs and whispers to
catch the suspended revelation; but they would have had to wait many
minutes -- so long was the silence protracted.  At last I looked
up at the tardy speaker:  he was looking eagerly at me.
"Little friend," said he, in quite a changed tone -- while his
face changed too, losing all its softness and gravity, and becoming
harsh and sarcastic -- "you have noticed my tender penchant for Miss
Ingram:  don't you think if I married her she would regenerate me
with a vengeance?"
He got up instantly, went quite to the other end of the walk, and
when he came back he was humming a tune.
"Jane, Jane," said he, stopping before me, "you are quite pale with
your vigils:  don't you curse me for disturbing your rest?"
"Curse you?  No, sir."
"Shake hands in confirmation of the word.  What cold fingers!
They were warmer last night when I touched them at the door of the
mysterious chamber.  Jane, when will you watch with me again?"
"Whenever I can be useful, sir."
"For instance, the night before I am married!  I am sure I shall
not be able to sleep.  Will you promise to sit up with me to bear
me company?  To you I can talk of my lovely one:  for now you have
seen her and know her."
"Yes, sir."
"She's a rare one, is she not, Jane?"
"Yes, sir."
"A strapper -- a real strapper, Jane:  big, brown, and buxom; with
hair just such as the ladies of Carthage must have had.  Bless me!
there's Dent and Lynn in the stables!  Go in by the shrubbery,
through that wicket."
As I went one way, he went another, and I heard him in
the yard, saying cheerfully -
"Mason got the start of you all this morning; he was gone before
sunrise:  I rose at four to see him off."
CHAPTER XXI
Presentiments are strange things!  and so are sympathies; and so
are signs; and the three combined make one mystery to which humanity
has not yet found the key.  I never laughed at presentiments in
my life, because I have had strange ones of my own.  Sympathies,
I believe, exist (for instance, between far-distant, long-absent,
wholly estranged relatives asserting, notwithstanding their
alienation, the unity of the source to which each traces his origin)
whose workings baffle mortal comprehension.  And signs, for aught
we know, may be but the sympathies of Nature with man.
When I was a little girl, only six years old, I one night heard
Bessie Leaven say to Martha Abbot that she had been dreaming about
a little child; and that to dream of children was a sure sign of
trouble, either to one's self or one's kin.  The saying might have
worn out of my memory, had not a circumstance immediately followed
which served indelibly to fix it there.  The next day Bessie was
sent for home to the deathbed of her little sister.
Of late I had often recalled this saying and this incident; for
during the past week scarcely a night had gone over my couch that
had not brought with it a dream of an infant, which I sometimes
hushed in my arms, sometimes dandled on my knee, sometimes watched
playing with daisies on a lawn, or again, dabbling its hands in
running water.  It was a wailing child this night, and a laughing
one the next:  now it nestled close to me, and now it ran from me;
but whatever mood the apparition evinced, whatever aspect it wore,
it failed not for seven successive nights to meet me the moment I
entered the land of slumber.
I did not like this iteration of one idea -- this strange recurrence
of one image, and I grew nervous as bedtime approached and the
hour of the vision drew near.  It was from companionship with this
baby-phantom I had been roused on that moonlight night when I heard
the cry; and it was on the afternoon of the day following I was
summoned downstairs by a message that some one wanted me in Mrs.
Fairfax's room.  On repairing thither, I found a man waiting for
me, having the appearance of a gentleman's servant:  he was dressed
in deep mourning, and the hat he held in his hand was surrounded
with a crape band.
"I daresay you hardly remember me, Miss," he said, rising as I
entered; "but my name is Leaven:  I lived coachman with Mrs. Reed
when you were at Gateshead, eight or nine years since, and I live
there still."
"Oh, Robert!  how do you do?  I remember you very well:  you used
to give me a ride sometimes on Miss Georgiana's bay pony.  And how
is Bessie?  You are married to Bessie?"
"Yes, Miss:  my wife is very hearty, thank you; she brought me
another little one about two months since -- we have three now --
and both mother and child are thriving."
"And are the family well at the house, Robert?"
"I am sorry I can't give you better news of them, Miss:  they are
very badly at present -- in great trouble."
"I hope no one is dead," I said, glancing at his black dress.  He
too looked down at the crape round his hat and replied -
"Mr. John died yesterday was a week, at his chambers in London."
"Mr. John?"
"Yes."
"And how does his mother bear it?"
"Why, you see, Miss Eyre, it is not a common mishap:  his life
has been very wild:  these last three years he gave himself up to
strange ways, and his death was shocking."
"I heard from Bessie he was not doing well."
"Doing well!  He could not do worse:  he ruined his health and
his estate amongst the worst men and the worst women.  He got into
debt and into jail:  his mother helped him out twice, but as soon
as he was free he returned to his old companions and habits.  His
head was not strong:  the knaves he lived amongst fooled him beyond
anything I ever heard.  He came down to Gateshead about three weeks
ago and wanted missis to give up all to him.  Missis refused:  her
means have long been much reduced by his extravagance; so he went
back again, and the next news was that he was dead.  How he died,
God knows! -- they say he killed himself."
I was silent:  the things were frightful.  Robert Leaven resumed -
