
"Missis had been out of health herself for some time:  she had got
very stout, but was not strong with it; and the loss of money and
fear of poverty were quite breaking her down.  The information
about Mr. John's death and the manner of it came too suddenly:
it brought on a stroke.  She was three days without speaking; but
last Tuesday she seemed rather better:  she appeared as if she wanted
to say something, and kept making signs to my wife and mumbling.
It was only yesterday morning, however, that Bessie understood
she was pronouncing your name; and at last she made out the words,
'Bring Jane -- fetch Jane Eyre:  I want to speak to her.'  Bessie
is not sure whether she is in her right mind, or means anything by
the words; but she told Miss Reed and Miss Georgiana, and advised
them to send for you.  The young ladies put it off at first; but
their mother grew so restless, and said, 'Jane, Jane,' so many
times, that at last they consented.  I left Gateshead yesterday:
and if you can get ready, Miss, I should like to take you back with
me early to-morrow morning."
"Yes, Robert, I shall be ready:  it seems to me that I ought to
go."
"I think so too, Miss.  Bessie said she was sure you would not
refuse:  but I suppose you will have to ask leave before you can
get off?"
"Yes; and I will do it now;" and having directed him to the
servants' hall, and recommended him to the care of John's wife,
and the attentions of John himself, I went in search of Mr. Rochester.
He was not in any of the lower rooms; he was not in the yard, the
stables, or the grounds.  I asked Mrs. Fairfax if she had seen him;
-- yes:  she believed he was playing billiards with Miss Ingram.
To the billiard-room I hastened:  the click of balls and the hum
of voices resounded thence; Mr. Rochester, Miss Ingram, the two
Misses Eshton, and their admirers, were all busied in the game.  It
required some courage to disturb so interesting a party; my errand,
however, was one I could not defer, so I approached the master
where he stood at Miss Ingram's side.  She turned as I drew near,
and looked at me haughtily:  her eyes seemed to demand, "What can
the creeping creature want now?"  and when I said, in a low voice,
"Mr. Rochester," she made a movement as if tempted to order me away.
I remember her appearance at the moment -- it was very graceful and
very striking:  she wore a morning robe of sky-blue crape; a gauzy
azure scarf was twisted in her hair.  She had been all animation
with the game, and irritated pride did not lower the expression of
her haughty lineaments.
"Does that person want you?"  she inquired of Mr. Rochester; and
Mr. Rochester turned to see who the "person" was.  He made a curious
grimace -- one of his strange and equivocal demonstrations -- threw
down his cue and followed me from the room.
"Well, Jane?"  he said, as he rested his back against the schoolroom
door, which he had shut.
"If you please, sir, I want leave of absence for a week or two."
"What to do? -- where to go?"
"To see a sick lady who has sent for me."
"What sick lady? -- where does she live?"
"At Gateshead; in -shire."
"-shire?  That is a hundred miles off!  Who may she be that sends
for people to see her that distance?"
"Her name is Reed, sir -- Mrs. Reed."
"Reed of Gateshead?  There was a Reed of Gateshead, a magistrate."
"It is his widow, sir."
"And what have you to do with her?  How do you know her?"
"Mr. Reed was my uncle -- my mother's brother."
"The deuce he was!  You never told me that before:  you always said
you had no relations."
"None that would own me, sir.  Mr. Reed is dead, and his wife cast
me off."
"Why?"
"Because I was poor, and burdensome, and she disliked me."
"But Reed left children? -- you must have cousins?  Sir George
Lynn was talking of a Reed of Gateshead yesterday, who, he said,
was one of the veriest rascals on town; and Ingram was mentioning
a Georgiana Reed of the same place, who was much admired for her
beauty a season or two ago in London."
"John Reed is dead, too, sir:  he ruined himself and half-ruined
his family, and is supposed to have committed suicide.  The news
so shocked his mother that it brought on an apoplectic attack."
"And what good can you do her?  Nonsense, Jane!  I would never think
of running a hundred miles to see an old lady who will, perhaps,
be dead before you reach her:  besides, you say she cast you off."
"Yes, sir, but that is long ago; and when her circumstances were
very different:  I could not be easy to neglect her wishes now."
"How long will you stay?"
"As short a time as possible, sir."
"Promise me only to stay a week -- "
"I had better not pass my word:  I might be obliged to break it."
"At all events you WILL come back:  you will not be induced under
any pretext to take up a permanent residence with her?"
"Oh, no!  I shall certainly return if all be well."
"And who goes with you?  You don't travel a hundred miles alone."
"No, sir, she has sent her coachman."
"A person to be trusted?"
"Yes, sir, he has lived ten years in the family."
Mr. Rochester meditated.  "When do you wish to go?"
"Early to-morrow morning, sir."
"Well, you must have some money; you can't travel without money,
and I daresay you have not much:  I have given you no salary yet.
How much have you in the world, Jane?"  he asked, smiling.
I drew out my purse; a meagre thing it was.  "Five shillings, sir."
He took the purse, poured the hoard into his palm, and chuckled over
it as if its scantiness amused him.  Soon he produced his pocket-
book:  "Here," said he, offering me a note; it was fifty pounds,
and he owed me but fifteen.  I told him I had no change.
"I don't want change; you know that.  Take your wages."
I declined accepting more than was my due.  He scowled
at first; then, as if recollecting something, he said -
"Right, right!  Better not give you all now:  you would, perhaps,
stay away three months if you had fifty pounds.  There are ten; is
it not plenty?"
"Yes, sir, but now you owe me five."
"Come back for it, then; I am your banker for forty pounds."
"Mr. Rochester, I may as well mention another matter of business
to you while I have the opportunity."
"Matter of business?  I am curious to hear it."
"You have as good as informed me, sir, that you are going shortly
to be married?"
"Yes; what then?"
"In that case, sir, Adele ought to go to school:  I am sure you
will perceive the necessity of it."
