
"I should wish her to be brought up in a manner suiting her prospects,"
continued my benefactress; "to be made useful, to be kept humble:
as for the vacations, she will, with your permission, spend them
always at Lowood."
"Your decisions are perfectly judicious, madam," returned Mr.
Brocklehurst.  "Humility is a Christian grace, and one peculiarly
appropriate to the pupils of Lowood; I, therefore, direct that
especial care shall be bestowed on its cultivation amongst them.
I have studied how best to mortify in them the worldly sentiment
of pride; and, only the other day, I had a pleasing proof of my
success.  My second daughter, Augusta, went with her mama to visit
the school, and on her return she exclaimed:  'Oh, dear papa,
how quiet and plain all the girls at Lowood look, with their hair
combed behind their ears, and their long pinafores, and those little
holland pockets outside their frocks -- they are almost like poor
people's children!  and,' said she, 'they looked at my dress and
mama's, as if they had never seen a silk gown before.'"
"This is the state of things I quite approve," returned Mrs.
Reed; "had I sought all England over, I could scarcely have found
a system more exactly fitting a child like Jane Eyre.  Consistency,
my dear Mr. Brocklehurst; I advocate consistency in all things."
"Consistency, madam, is the first of Christian duties; and it has
been observed in every arrangement connected with the establishment
of Lowood:  plain fare, simple attire, unsophisticated accommodations,
hardy and active habits; such is the order of the day in the house
and its inhabitants."
"Quite right, sir.  I may then depend upon this child being received
as a pupil at Lowood, and there being trained in conformity to her
position and prospects?"
"Madam, you may:  she shall be placed in that nursery of chosen
plants, and I trust she will show herself grateful for the inestimable
privilege of her election."
"I will send her, then, as soon as possible, Mr. Brocklehurst; for,
I assure you, I feel anxious to be relieved of a responsibility
that was becoming too irksome."
"No doubt, no doubt, madam; and now I wish you good morning.  I
shall return to Brocklehurst Hall in the course of a week or two:
my good friend, the Archdeacon, will not permit me to leave him
sooner.  I shall send Miss Temple notice that she is to expect a
new girl, so that there will he no difficulty about receiving her.
Good-bye."
"Good-bye, Mr. Brocklehurst; remember me to Mrs. and Miss Brocklehurst,
and to Augusta and Theodore, and Master Broughton Brocklehurst."
"I will, madam.  Little girl, here is a book entitled the 'Child's
Guide,' read it with prayer, especially that part containing 'An
account of the awfully sudden death of Martha G -, a naughty child
addicted to falsehood and deceit.'"
With these words Mr. Brocklehurst put into my hand a thin pamphlet
sewn in a cover, and having rung for his carriage, he departed.
Mrs. Reed and I were left alone:  some minutes passed in silence;
she was sewing, I was watching her.  Mrs. Reed might be at that
time some six or seven and thirty; she was a woman of robust frame,
square-shouldered and strong-limbed, not tall, and, though stout,
not obese:  she had a somewhat large face, the under jaw being
much developed and very solid; her brow was low, her chin large and
prominent, mouth and nose sufficiently regular; under her light
eyebrows glimmered an eye devoid of ruth; her skin was dark and
opaque, her hair nearly flaxen; her constitution was sound as a bell
-- illness never came near her; she was an exact, clever manager;
her household and tenantry were thoroughly under her control;
her children only at times defied her authority and laughed it to
scorn; she dressed well, and had a presence and port calculated to
set off handsome attire.
Sitting on a low stool, a few yards from her arm-chair, I examined
her figure; I perused her features.  In my hand I held the
tract containing the sudden death of the Liar, to which narrative
my attention had been pointed as to an appropriate warning.  What
had just passed; what Mrs. Reed had said concerning me to Mr.
Brocklehurst; the whole tenor of their conversation, was recent,
raw, and stinging in my mind; I had felt every word as acutely as
I had heard it plainly, and a passion of resentment fomented now
within me.
Mrs. Reed looked up from her work; her eye settled on mine, her
fingers at the same time suspended their nimble movements.
"Go out of the room; return to the nursery," was her mandate.  My
look or something else must have struck her as offensive, for she
spoke with extreme though suppressed irritation.  I got up, I went
to the door; I came back again; I walked to the window, across the
room, then close up to her.
SPEAK I must:  I had been trodden on severely, and MUST turn:  but
how?  What strength had I to dart retaliation at my antagonist?
I gathered my energies and launched them in this blunt sentence -
"I am not deceitful:  if I were, I should say I loved you; but I
declare I do not love you:  I dislike you the worst of anybody in
the world except John Reed; and this book about the liar, you may
give to your girl, Georgiana, for it is she who tells lies, and
not I."
Mrs. Reed's hands still lay on her work inactive:  her eye of ice
continued to dwell freezingly on mine.
"What more have you to say?"  she asked, rather in the tone in
which a person might address an opponent of adult age than such as
is ordinarily used to a child.
That eye of hers, that voice stirred every antipathy I had.
Shaking from head to foot, thrilled with ungovernable excitement,
I continued -
"I am glad you are no relation of mine:  I will never call you
aunt again as long as I live.  I will never come to see you when
I am grown up; and if any one asks me how I liked you, and how you
treated me, I will say the very thought of you makes me sick, and
that you treated me with miserable cruelty."
"How dare you affirm that, Jane Eyre?"
"How dare I, Mrs. Reed?  How dare I? Because it is the TRUTH. You
think I have no feelings, and that I can do without one bit of love
or kindness; but I cannot live so:  and you have no pity.  I shall
remember how you thrust me back -- roughly and violently thrust
me back -- into the red-room, and locked me up there, to my dying
day; though I was in agony; though I cried out, while suffocating
with distress, 'Have mercy!  Have mercy, Aunt Reed!'  And that
punishment you made me suffer because your wicked boy struck me
-- knocked me down for nothing.  I will tell anybody who asks me
questions, this exact tale.  People think you a good woman, but
you are bad, hard- hearted.  YOU are deceitful!"
Ere I had finished this reply, my soul began to expand, to exult,
with the strangest sense of freedom, of triumph, I ever felt.  It
seemed as if an invisible bond had burst, and that I had struggled
out into unhoped-for liberty.  Not without cause was this sentiment:
Mrs. Reed looked frightened; her work had slipped from her knee;
she was lifting up her hands, rocking herself to and fro, and even
twisting her face as if she would cry.
"Jane, you are under a mistake:  what is the matter with you?  Why
do you tremble so violently?  Would you like to drink some water?"
"No, Mrs. Reed."
"Is there anything else you wish for, Jane?  I assure you, I desire
to be your friend."
"Not you.  You told Mr. Brocklehurst I had a bad character, a
deceitful disposition; and I'll let everybody at Lowood know what
you are, and what you have done."
"Jane, you don't understand these things:  children must be corrected
for their faults."
"Deceit is not my fault!"  I cried out in a savage, high voice.
"But you are passionate, Jane, that you must allow:  and now return
to the nursery -- there's a dear -- and lie down a little."
"I am not your dear; I cannot lie down:  send me to school soon,
Mrs. Reed, for I hate to live here."
"I will indeed send her to school soon," murmured Mrs. Reed sotto
voce; and gathering up her work, she abruptly quitted the apartment.
I was left there alone -- winner of the field.  It was the hardest
battle I had fought, and the first victory I had gained:  I stood
awhile on the rug, where Mr. Brocklehurst had stood, and I enjoyed
my conqueror's solitude.  First, I smiled to myself and felt
elate; but this fierce pleasure subsided in me as fast as did the
accelerated throb of my pulses.  A child cannot quarrel with its
elders, as I had done; cannot give its furious feelings uncontrolled
play, as I had given mine, without experiencing afterwards the pang
of remorse and the chill of reaction.  A ridge of lighted heath,
alive, glancing, devouring, would have been a meet emblem of my
mind when I accused and menaced Mrs. Reed:  the same ridge, black
and blasted after the flames are dead, would have represented as
meetly my subsequent condition, when half-an-hour's silence and
reflection had shown me the madness of my conduct, and the dreariness
of my hated and hating position.
Something of vengeance I had tasted for the first time; as aromatic
wine it seemed, on swallowing, warm and racy:  its after-flavour,
metallic and corroding, gave me a sensation as if I had been poisoned.
Willingly would I now have gone and asked Mrs. Reed's pardon; but
I knew, partly from experience and partly from instinct, that was
the way to make her repulse me with double scorn, thereby re-exciting
every turbulent impulse of my nature.
I would fain exercise some better faculty than that of fierce
speaking; fain find nourishment for some less fiendish feeling than
that of sombre indignation.  I took a book -- some Arabian tales;
I sat down and endeavoured to read.  I could make no sense of
the subject; my own thoughts swam always between me and the page
I had usually found fascinating.  I opened the glass-door in the
breakfast-room:  the shrubbery was quite still:  the black frost
reigned, unbroken by sun or breeze, through the grounds.  I covered
my head and arms with the skirt of my frock, and went out to walk
in a part of the plantation which was quite sequestrated; but I
found no pleasure in the silent trees, the falling fir-cones, the
congealed relics of autumn, russet leaves, swept by past winds in
heaps, and now stiffened together.  I leaned against a gate, and
looked into an empty field where no sheep were feeding, where the
short grass was nipped and blanched.  It was a very grey day; a
most opaque sky, "onding on snaw," canopied all; thence flakes felt
it intervals, which settled on the hard path and on the hoary lea
without melting.  I stood, a wretched child enough, whispering to
myself over and over again, "What shall I do? -- what shall I do?"
All at once I heard a clear voice call, "Miss Jane!  where are you?
Come to lunch!"
It was Bessie, I knew well enough; but I did not stir; her light
step came tripping down the path.
"You naughty little thing!"  she said.  "Why don't you come when
you are called?"
Bessie's presence, compared with the thoughts over which I had been
brooding, seemed cheerful; even though, as usual, she was somewhat
cross.  The fact is, after my conflict with and victory over Mrs.
Reed, I was not disposed to care much for the nursemaid's transitory
anger; and I WAS disposed to bask in her youthful lightness of
heart.  I just put my two arms round her and said, "Come, Bessie!
don't scold."
The action was more frank and fearless than any I was habituated
to indulge in:  somehow it pleased her.
"You are a strange child, Miss Jane," she said, as she looked down
at me; "a little roving, solitary thing:  and you are going to
school, I suppose?"
I nodded.
"And won't you be sorry to leave poor Bessie?"
"What does Bessie care for me?  She is always scolding me."
"Because you're such a queer, frightened, shy little thing.  You
should be bolder."
"What!  to get more knocks?"
"Nonsense!  But you are rather put upon, that's certain.  My mother
said, when she came to see me last week, that she would not like
a little one of her own to be in your place. -- Now, come in, and
I've some good news for you."
"I don't think you have, Bessie."
"Child!  what do you mean?  What sorrowful eyes you fix on me!
Well, but Missis and the young ladies and Master John are going
out to tea this afternoon, and you shall have tea with me.  I'll
ask cook to bake you a little cake, and then you shall help me to
look over your drawers; for I am soon to pack your trunk.  Missis
intends you to leave Gateshead in a day or two, and you shall choose
what toys you like to take with you."
