
"To get her out of my bride's way, who might otherwise walk over
her rather too emphatically?  There's sense in the suggestion; not
a doubt of it.  Adele, as you say, must go to school; and you, of
course, must march straight to -- the devil?"
"I hope not, sir; but I must seek another situation somewhere."
"In course!"  he exclaimed, with a twang of voice and a distortion
of features equally fantastic and ludicrous.  He looked at me some
minutes.
"And old Madam Reed, or the Misses, her daughters, will be solicited
by you to seek a place, I suppose?"
"No, sir; I am not on such terms with my relatives as would justify
me in asking favours of them -- but I shall advertise."
"You shall walk up the pyramids of Egypt!"  he growled.  "At your
peril you advertise!  I wish I had only offered you a sovereign
instead of ten pounds.  Give me back nine pounds, Jane; I've a use
for it."
"And so have I, sir," I returned, putting my hands and my purse
behind me.  "I could not spare the money on any account."
"Little niggard!"  said he, "refusing me a pecuniary request!  Give
me five pounds, Jane."
"Not five shillings, sir; nor five pence."
"Just let me look at the cash."
"No, sir; you are not to be trusted."
"Jane!"
"Sir?"
"Promise me one thing."
"I'll promise you anything, sir, that I think I am likely to
perform."
"Not to advertise:  and to trust this quest of a situation to me.
I'll find you one in time."
"I shall be glad so to do, sir, if you, in your turn, will promise
that I and Adele shall be both safe out of the house before your
bride enters it."
"Very well!  very well!  I'll pledge my word on it.  You go to-morrow,
then?"
"Yes, sir; early."
"Shall you come down to the drawing-room after dinner?"
"No, sir, I must prepare for the journey."
"Then you and I must bid good-bye for a little while?"
"I suppose so, sir."
"And how do people perform that ceremony of parting, Jane?  Teach
me; I'm not quite up to it."
"They say, Farewell, or any other form they prefer."
"Then say it."
"Farewell, Mr. Rochester, for the present."
"What must I say?"
"The same, if you like, sir."
"Farewell, Miss Eyre, for the present; is that all?"
"Yes?"
"It seems stingy, to my notions, and dry, and unfriendly.  I should
like something else:  a little addition to the rite.  If one shook
hands, for instance; but no -- that would not content me either.
So you'll do no more than say Farewell, Jane?"
"It is enough, sir:  as much good-will may be conveyed in one hearty
word as in many."
"Very likely; but it is blank and cool -- 'Farewell.'"
"How long is he going to stand with his back against that door?"
I asked myself; "I want to commence my packing."  The dinner-bell
rang, and suddenly away he bolted, without another syllable:  I
saw him no more during the day, and was off before he had risen in
the morning.
I reached the lodge at Gateshead about five o'clock in the afternoon
of the first of May:  I stepped in there before going up to the
hall.  It was very clean and neat:  the ornamental windows were
hung with little white curtains; the floor was spotless; the grate
and fire-irons were burnished bright, and the fire burnt clear.
Bessie sat on the hearth, nursing her last-born, and Robert and
his sister played quietly in a corner.
"Bless you! -- I knew you would come!"  exclaimed Mrs. Leaven, as
I entered.
"Yes, Bessie," said I, after I had kissed her; "and I trust I am
not too late.  How is Mrs. Reed? -- Alive still, I hope."
"Yes, she is alive; and more sensible and collected than she was.
The doctor says she may linger a week or two yet; but he hardly
thinks she will finally recover."
"Has she mentioned me lately?"
"She was talking of you only this morning, and wishing you would
come, but she is sleeping now, or was ten minutes ago, when I was
up at the house.  She generally lies in a kind of lethargy all the
afternoon, and wakes up about six or seven.  Will you rest yourself
here an hour, Miss, and then I will go up with you?"
Robert here entered, and Bessie laid her sleeping child in the
cradle and went to welcome him:  afterwards she insisted on my taking
off my bonnet and having some tea; for she said I looked pale and
tired.  I was glad to accept her hospitality; and I submitted to
be relieved of my travelling garb just as passively as I used to
let her undress me when a child.
Old times crowded fast back on me as I watched her bustling about
-- setting out the tea-tray with her best china, cutting bread and
butter, toasting a tea-cake, and, between whiles, giving little
Robert or Jane an occasional tap or push, just as she used to give
me in former days.  Bessie had retained her quick temper as well
as her light foot and good looks.
Tea ready, I was going to approach the table; but she desired me
to sit still, quite in her old peremptory tones.  I must be served
at the fireside, she said; and she placed before me a little round
stand with my cup and a plate of toast, absolutely as she used to
accommodate me with some privately purloined dainty on a nursery
chair:  and I smiled and obeyed her as in bygone days.
She wanted to know if I was happy at Thornfield Hall, and what sort
of a person the mistress was; and when I told her there was only
a master, whether he was a nice gentleman, and if I liked him.  I
told her he was rather an ugly man, but quite a gentleman; and
that he treated me kindly, and I was content.  Then I went on to
describe to her the gay company that had lately been staying at the
house; and to these details Bessie listened with interest:  they
were precisely of the kind she relished.
In such conversation an hour was soon gone:  Bessie restored to me
my bonnet, &c., and, accompanied by her, I quitted the lodge for
the hall.  It was also accompanied by her that I had, nearly nine
years ago, walked down the path I was now ascending.  On a dark,
misty, raw morning in January, I had left a hostile roof with a
desperate and embittered heart -- a sense of outlawry and almost
of reprobation -- to seek the chilly harbourage of Lowood:  that
bourne so far away and unexplored.  The same hostile roof now again
rose before me:  my prospects were doubtful yet; and I had yet an
aching heart.  I still felt as a wanderer on the face of the earth;
but I experienced firmer trust in myself and my own powers, and
less withering dread of oppression.  The gaping wound of my wrongs,
too, was now quite healed; and the flame of resentment extinguished.
"You shall go into the breakfast-room first," said Bessie, as she
preceded me through the hall; "the young ladies will be there."
In another moment I was within that apartment.  There was every
article of furniture looking just as it did on the morning I was
first introduced to Mr. Brocklehurst:  the very rug he had stood upon
still covered the hearth.  Glancing at the bookcases, I thought I
could distinguish the two volumes of Bewick's British Birds occupying
their old place on the third shelf, and Gulliver's Travels and the
Arabian Nights ranged just above.  The inanimate objects were not
changed; but the living things had altered past recognition.
Two young ladies appeared before me; one very tall, almost as tall
as Miss Ingram -- very thin too, with a sallow face and severe
mien.  There was something ascetic in her look, which was augmented
by the extreme plainness of a straight-skirted, black, stuff dress,
a starched linen collar, hair combed away from the temples, and
the nun-like ornament of a string of ebony beads and a crucifix.
This I felt sure was Eliza, though I could trace little resemblance
to her former self in that elongated and colourless visage.
The other was as certainly Georgiana:  but not the Georgiana
I remembered -- the slim and fairy-like girl of eleven.  This was
a full-blown, very plump damsel, fair as waxwork, with handsome
and regular features, languishing blue eyes, and ringleted yellow
hair.  The hue of her dress was black too; but its fashion was so
different from her sister's -- so much more flowing and becoming
-- it looked as stylish as the other's looked puritanical.
