
In each of the sisters there was one trait of the mother -- and only
one; the thin and pallid elder daughter had her parent's Cairngorm
eye:  the blooming and luxuriant younger girl had her contour of
jaw and chin -- perhaps a little softened, but still imparting an
indescribable hardness to the countenance otherwise so voluptuous
and buxom.
Both ladies, as I advanced, rose to welcome me, and both addressed
me by the name of "Miss Eyre."  Eliza's greeting was delivered in
a short, abrupt voice, without a smile; and then she sat down again,
fixed her eyes on the fire, and seemed to forget me.  Georgiana
added to her "How d'ye do?"  several commonplaces about my journey,
the weather, and so on, uttered in rather a drawling tone:  and
accompanied by sundry side-glances that measured me from head to
foot -- now traversing the folds of my drab merino pelisse, and
now lingering on the plain trimming of my cottage bonnet.  Young
ladies have a remarkable way of letting you know that they
think you a "quiz" without actually saying the words.  A certain
superciliousness of look, coolness of manner, nonchalance of tone,
express fully their sentiments on the point, without committing
them by any positive rudeness in word or deed.
A sneer, however, whether covert or open, had now no longer that
power over me it once possessed:  as I sat between my cousins, I
was surprised to find how easy I felt under the total neglect of
the one and the semi-sarcastic attentions of the other -- Eliza did
not mortify, nor Georgiana ruffle me.  The fact was, I had other
things to think about; within the last few months feelings had
been stirred in me so much more potent than any they could raise
-- pains and pleasures so much more acute and exquisite had been
excited than any it was in their power to inflict or bestow -- that
their airs gave me no concern either for good or bad.
"How is Mrs. Reed?"  I asked soon, looking calmly at Georgiana,
who thought fit to bridle at the direct address, as if it were an
unexpected liberty.
"Mrs. Reed?  Ah!  mama, you mean; she is extremely poorly:  I doubt
if you can see her to-night."
"If," said I, "you would just step upstairs and tell her I am come,
I should be much obliged to you."
Georgiana almost started, and she opened her blue eyes wild and
wide.  "I know she had a particular wish to see me," I added, "and
I would not defer attending to her desire longer than is absolutely
necessary."
"Mama dislikes being disturbed in an evening," remarked Eliza.  I
soon rose, quietly took off my bonnet and gloves, uninvited, and
said I would just step out to Bessie -- who was, I dared say, in the
kitchen -- and ask her to ascertain whether Mrs. Reed was disposed
to receive me or not to-night.  I went, and having found Bessie and
despatched her on my errand, I proceeded to take further measures.
It had heretofore been my habit always to shrink from arrogance:
received as I had been to-day, I should, a year ago, have resolved
to quit Gateshead the very next morning; now, it was disclosed
to me all at once that that would be a foolish plan.  I had taken
a journey of a hundred miles to see my aunt, and I must stay with
her till she was better -- or dead:  as to her daughters' pride or
folly, I must put it on one side, make myself independent of it.
So I addressed the housekeeper; asked her to show me a room, told
her I should probably be a visitor here for a week or two, had my
trunk conveyed to my chamber, and followed it thither myself:  I
met Bessie on the landing.
"Missis is awake," said she; "I have told her you are here:  come
and let us see if she will know you."
I did not need to be guided to the well-known room, to which I
had so often been summoned for chastisement or reprimand in former
days.  I hastened before Bessie; I softly opened the door:  a shaded
light stood on the table, for it was now getting dark.  There was
the great four-post bed with amber hangings as of old; there the
toilet-table, the armchair, and the footstool, at which I had a
hundred times been sentenced to kneel, to ask pardon for offences
by me uncommitted.  I looked into a certain corner near, half-expecting
to see the slim outline of a once dreaded switch which used to lurk
there, waiting to leap out imp-like and lace my quivering palm or
shrinking neck.  I approached the bed; I opened the curtains and
leant over the high-piled pillows.
Well did I remember Mrs. Reed's face, and I eagerly sought the
familiar image.  It is a happy thing that time quells the longings
of vengeance and hushes the promptings of rage and aversion.  I had
left this woman in bitterness and hate, and I came back to her now
with no other emotion than a sort of ruth for her great sufferings,
and a strong yearning to forget and forgive all injuries -- to be
reconciled and clasp hands in amity.
The well-known face was there:  stern, relentless as ever -- there
was that peculiar eye which nothing could melt, and the somewhat
raised, imperious, despotic eyebrow.  How often had it lowered on me
menace and hate!  and how the recollection of childhood's terrors
and sorrows revived as I traced its harsh line now!  And yet I
stooped down and kissed her:  she looked at me.
"Is this Jane Eyre?"  she said.
"Yes, Aunt Reed.  How are you, dear aunt?"
I had once vowed that I would never call her aunt again:  I thought
it no sin to forget and break that vow now.  My fingers had fastened
on her hand which lay outside the sheet:  had she pressed mine
kindly, I should at that moment have experienced true pleasure.  But
unimpressionable natures are not so soon softened, nor are natural
antipathies so readily eradicated.  Mrs. Reed took her hand away,
and, turning her face rather from me, she remarked that the night
was warm.  Again she regarded me so icily, I felt at once that
her opinion of me -- her feeling towards me -- was unchanged and
unchangeable.  I knew by her stony eye -- opaque to tenderness,
indissoluble to tears -- that she was resolved to consider me bad
to the last; because to believe me good would give her no generous
pleasure:  only a sense of mortification.
I felt pain, and then I felt ire; and then I felt a determination
to subdue her -- to be her mistress in spite both of her nature
and her will.  My tears had risen, just as in childhood:  I ordered
them back to their source.  I brought a chair to the bed-head:  I
sat down and leaned over the pillow.
"You sent for me," I said, "and I am here; and it is my intention
to stay till I see how you get on."
"Oh, of course!  You have seen my daughters?"
"Yes."
"Well, you may tell them I wish you to stay till I can talk some
things over with you I have on my mind:  to-night it is too late, and
I have a difficulty in recalling them.  But there was something
I wished to say -- let me see -- "
The wandering look and changed utterance told what wreck had taken
place in her once vigorous frame.  Turning restlessly, she drew the
bedclothes round her; my elbow, resting on a corner of the quilt,
fixed it down:  she was at once irritated.
"Sit up!"  said she; "don't annoy me with holding the clothes fast.
Are you Jane Eyre?"
"I am Jane Eyre."
"I have had more trouble with that child than any one would believe.
Such a burden to be left on my hands -- and so much annoyance as she
caused me, daily and hourly, with her incomprehensible disposition,
and her sudden starts of temper, and her continual, unnatural
watchings of one's movements!  I declare she talked to me once like
something mad, or like a fiend -- no child ever spoke or looked as
she did; I was glad to get her away from the house.  What did they
do with her at Lowood?  The fever broke out there, and many of the
pupils died.  She, however, did not die:  but I said she did -- I
wish she had died!"
"A strange wish, Mrs. Reed; why do you hate her so?"
"I had a dislike to her mother always; for she was my husband's only
sister, and a great favourite with him:  he opposed the family's
disowning her when she made her low marriage; and when news came of
her death, he wept like a simpleton.  He would send for the baby;
though I entreated him rather to put it out to nurse and pay for
its maintenance.  I hated it the first time I set my eyes on it --
a sickly, whining, pining thing!  It would wail in its cradle all
night long -- not screaming heartily like any other child, but
whimpering and moaning.  Reed pitied it; and he used to nurse it
and notice it as if it had been his own:  more, indeed, than he
ever noticed his own at that age.  He would try to make my children
friendly to the little beggar:  the darlings could not bear it,
and he was angry with them when they showed their dislike.  In his
last illness, he had it brought continually to his bedside; and but
an hour before he died, he bound me by vow to keep the creature.
I would as soon have been charged with a pauper brat out of a
workhouse:  but he was weak, naturally weak.  John does not at all
resemble his father, and I am glad of it:  John is like me and like
my brothers -- he is quite a Gibson.  Oh, I wish he would cease
tormenting me with letters for money?  I have no more money to give
him:  we are getting poor.  I must send away half the servants and
shut up part of the house; or let it off.  I can never submit to
do that -- yet how are we to get on?  Two-thirds of my income goes
in paying the interest of mortgages.  John gambles dreadfully, and
always loses -- poor boy!  He is beset by sharpers:  John is sunk
and degraded -- his look is frightful -- I feel ashamed for him
when I see him."
She was getting much excited.  "I think I had better leave her
now," said I to Bessie, who stood on the other side of the bed.
"Perhaps you had, Miss:  but she often talks in this way towards
night -- in the morning she is calmer."
I rose.  "Stop!"  exclaimed Mrs. Reed, "there is another thing
I wished to say.  He threatens me -- he continually threatens me
with his own death, or mine:  and I dream sometimes that I see him
laid out with a great wound in his throat, or with a swollen and
blackened face.  I am come to a strange pass:  I have heavy troubles.
What is to be done?  How is the money to be had?"
Bessie now endeavoured to persuade her to take a sedative draught:
she succeeded with difficulty.  Soon after, Mrs. Reed grew more
composed, and sank into a dozing state.  I then left her.
More than ten days elapsed before I had again any conversation with
her.  She continued either delirious or lethargic; and the doctor
forbade everything which could painfully excite her.  Meantime,
I got on as well as I could with Georgiana and Eliza.  They were
very cold, indeed, at first.  Eliza would sit half the day sewing,
reading, or writing, and scarcely utter a word either to me or her
sister.  Georgiana would chatter nonsense to her canary bird by the
hour, and take no notice of me.  But I was determined not to seem
at a loss for occupation or amusement:  I had brought my drawing
materials with me, and they served me for both.
Provided with a case of pencils, and some sheets of paper, I used
to take a seat apart from them, near the window, and busy myself
in sketching fancy vignettes, representing any scene that happened
momentarily to shape itself in the ever-shifting kaleidoscope of
imagination:  a glimpse of sea between two rocks; the rising moon,
and a ship crossing its disk; a group of reeds and water-flags, and
a naiad's head, crowned with lotus-flowers, rising out of them; an
elf sitting in a hedge-sparrow's nest, under a wreath of hawthorn-bloom.
One morning I fell to sketching a face:  what sort of a face it was
to be, I did not care or know.  I took a soft black pencil, gave
it a broad point, and worked away.  Soon I had traced on the paper
a broad and prominent forehead and a square lower outline of visage:
that contour gave me pleasure; my fingers proceeded actively to
fill it with features.  Strongly-marked horizontal eyebrows must
be traced under that brow; then followed, naturally, a well-defined
nose, with a straight ridge and full nostrils; then a flexible-
looking mouth, by no means narrow; then a firm chin, with a decided
cleft down the middle of it:  of course, some black whiskers were
wanted, and some jetty hair, tufted on the temples, and waved above
the forehead.  Now for the eyes:  I had left them to the last,
because they required the most careful working.  I drew them
large; I shaped them well:  the eyelashes I traced long and sombre;
the irids lustrous and large.  "Good!  but not quite the thing,"
I thought, as I surveyed the effect:  "they want more force and
spirit;" and I wrought the shades blacker, that the lights might
flash more brilliantly -- a happy touch or two secured success.
There, I had a friend's face under my gaze; and what did it signify
that those young ladies turned their backs on me?  I looked at it;
I smiled at the speaking likeness:  I was absorbed and content.
"Is that a portrait of some one you know?"  asked Eliza, who had
approached me unnoticed.  I responded that it was merely a fancy
head, and hurried it beneath the other sheets.  Of course, I lied:
it was, in fact, a very faithful representation of Mr. Rochester.
But what was that to her, or to any one but myself?  Georgiana
also advanced to look.  The other drawings pleased her much, but
she called that "an ugly man."  They both seemed surprised at my
skill.  I offered to sketch their portraits; and each, in turn,
sat for a pencil outline.  Then Georgiana produced her album.  I
promised to contribute a water-colour drawing:  this put her at once
into good humour.  She proposed a walk in the grounds.  Before we
had been out two hours, we were deep in a confidential conversation:
she had favoured me with a description of the brilliant winter she
had spent in London two seasons ago -- of the admiration she had
there excited -- the attention she had received; and I even got
hints of the titled conquest she had made.  In the course of the
afternoon and evening these hints were enlarged on:  various soft
conversations were reported, and sentimental scenes represented;
and, in short, a volume of a novel of fashionable life was that day
improvised by her for my benefit.  The communications were renewed
from day to day:  they always ran on the same theme -- herself, her
loves, and woes.  It was strange she never once adverted either to
her mother's illness, or her brother's death, or the present gloomy
state of the family prospects.  Her mind seemed wholly taken up with
reminiscences of past gaiety, and aspirations after dissipations
to come.  She passed about five minutes each day in her mother's
sick-room, and no more.
Eliza still spoke little:  she had evidently no time to talk.  I
never saw a busier person than she seemed to be; yet it was
difficult to say what she did:  or rather, to discover any result
of her diligence.  She had an alarm to call her up early.  I know
not how she occupied herself before breakfast, but after that meal
she divided her time into regular portions, and each hour had its
allotted task.  Three times a day she studied a little book, which
I found, on inspection, was a Common Prayer Book.  I asked her once
what was the great attraction of that volume, and she said, "the
Rubric."  Three hours she gave to stitching, with gold thread,
the border of a square crimson cloth, almost large enough for a
carpet.  In answer to my inquiries after the use of this article,
she informed me it was a covering for the altar of a new church
lately erected near Gateshead.  Two hours she devoted to her diary;
two to working by herself in the kitchen-garden; and one to the
regulation of her accounts.  She seemed to want no company; no
conversation.  I believe she was happy in her way:  this routine
sufficed for her; and nothing annoyed her so much as the occurrence
of any incident which forced her to vary its clockwork regularity.
She told me one evening, when more disposed to be communicative
than usual, that John's conduct, and the threatened ruin of the
family, had been a source of profound affliction to her:  but she
had now, she said, settled her mind, and formed her resolution.
Her own fortune she had taken care to secure; and when her mother
died -- and it was wholly improbable, she tranquilly remarked,
that she should either recover or linger long -- she would execute
a long-cherished project:  seek a retirement where punctual habits
would be permanently secured from disturbance, and place safe barriers
between herself and a frivolous world.  I asked if Georgiana would
accompany her.
"Of course not.  Georgiana and she had nothing in common:  they
never had had.  She would not be burdened with her society for
any consideration.  Georgiana should take her own course; and she,
Eliza, would take hers."
Georgiana, when not unburdening her heart to me, spent most of her
time in lying on the sofa, fretting about the dulness of the house,
and wishing over and over again that her aunt Gibson would send
her an invitation up to town.  "It would be so much better," she
said, "if she could only get out of the way for a month or two, till
all was over."  I did not ask what she meant by "all being over,"
but I suppose she referred to the expected decease of her mother
and the gloomy sequel of funeral rites.  Eliza generally took no
more notice of her sister's indolence and complaints than if no such
murmuring, lounging object had been before her.  One day, however,
as she put away her account-book and unfolded her embroidery,
she suddenly took her up thus -
"Georgiana, a more vain and absurd animal than you was certainly
never allowed to cumber the earth.  You had no right to be born,
for you make no use of life.  Instead of living for, in, and with
yourself, as a reasonable being ought, you seek only to fasten
your feebleness on some other person's strength:  if no one can be
found willing to burden her or himself with such a fat, weak, puffy,
useless thing, you cry out that you are ill-treated, neglected,
miserable.  Then, too, existence for you must be a scene of continual
change and excitement, or else the world is a dungeon:  you must
be admired, you must be courted, you must be flattered -- you must
have music, dancing, and society -- or you languish, you die away.
Have you no sense to devise a system which will make you independent
of all efforts, and all wills, but your own?  Take one day; share
it into sections; to each section apportion its task:  leave no
stray unemployed quarters of an hour, ten minutes, five minutes
-- include all; do each piece of business in its turn with method,
with rigid regularity.  The day will close almost before you are
aware it has begun; and you are indebted to no one for helping you
to get rid of one vacant moment:  you have had to seek no one's
company, conversation, sympathy, forbearance; you have lived,
in short, as an independent being ought to do.  Take this advice:
the first and last I shall offer you; then you will not want me or
any one else, happen what may.  Neglect it -- go on as heretofore,
craving, whining, and idling -- and suffer the results of your
idiocy, however bad and insuperable they may be.  I tell you this
plainly; and listen:  for though I shall no more repeat what I am
now about to say, I shall steadily act on it.  After my mother's
death, I wash my hands of you:  from the day her coffin is carried
to the vault in Gateshead Church, you and I will be as separate as
if we had never known each other.  You need not think that because
we chanced to be born of the same parents, I shall suffer you to
fasten me down by even the feeblest claim:  I can tell you this --
if the whole human race, ourselves excepted, were swept away, and
we two stood alone on the earth, I would leave you in the old world,
and betake myself to the new."
She closed her lips.
"You might have spared yourself the trouble of delivering that
tirade," answered Georgiana.  "Everybody knows you are the most
selfish, heartless creature in existence:  and I know your spiteful
hatred towards me:  I have had a specimen of it before in the
trick you played me about Lord Edwin Vere:  you could not bear me
to be raised above you, to have a title, to be received into circles
where you dare not show your face, and so you acted the spy and
informer, and ruined my prospects for ever."  Georgiana took out
her handkerchief and blew her nose for an hour afterwards; Eliza
sat cold, impassable, and assiduously industrious.
True, generous feeling is made small account of by some, but here
were two natures rendered, the one intolerably acrid, the other
despicably savourless for the want of it.  Feeling without judgment
is a washy draught indeed; but judgment untempered by feeling is
too bitter and husky a morsel for human deglutition.
It was a wet and windy afternoon:  Georgiana had fallen asleep on
the sofa over the perusal of a novel; Eliza was gone to attend a
saint's-day service at the new church -- for in matters of religion
she was a rigid formalist:  no weather ever prevented the punctual
discharge of what she considered her devotional duties; fair or foul,
she went to church thrice every Sunday, and as often on week-days
as there were prayers.
I bethought myself to go upstairs and see how the dying woman sped,
who lay there almost unheeded:  the very servants paid her but a
remittent attention:  the hired nurse, being little looked after,
would slip out of the room whenever she could.  Bessie was faithful;
but she had her own family to mind, and could only come occasionally
to the hall.  I found the sick-room unwatched, as I had expected:
no nurse was there; the patient lay still, and seemingly lethargic;
her livid face sunk in the pillows:  the fire was dying in the
grate.  I renewed the fuel, re-arranged the bedclothes, gazed awhile
on her who could not now gaze on me, and then I moved away to the
window.
The rain beat strongly against the panes, the wind blew tempestuously:
"One lies there," I thought, "who will soon be beyond the war of
earthly elements.  Whither will that spirit -- now struggling to
quit its material tenement -- flit when at length released?"
In pondering the great mystery, I thought of Helen Burns, recalled
her dying words -- her faith -- her doctrine of the equality
of disembodied souls.  I was still listening in thought to her
well-remembered tones -- still picturing her pale and spiritual
aspect, her wasted face and sublime gaze, as she lay on her placid
deathbed, and whispered her longing to be restored to her divine
Father's bosom -- when a feeble voice murmured from the couch
behind:  "Who is that?"
I knew Mrs. Reed had not spoken for days:  was she reviving?  I
went up to her.
"It is I, Aunt Reed."
"Who -- I?" was her answer.  "Who are you?"  looking at me with
surprise and a sort of alarm, but still not wildly.  "You are quite
a stranger to me -- where is Bessie?"
"She is at the lodge, aunt."
