
"And this is Jane Eyre?  Are you coming from Millcote, and on foot?
Yes -- just one of your tricks:  not to send for a carriage, and
come clattering over street and road like a common mortal, but to
steal into the vicinage of your home along with twilight, just as
if you were a dream or a shade.  What the deuce have you done with
yourself this last month?"
"I have been with my aunt, sir, who is dead."
"A true Janian reply!  Good angels be my guard!  She comes from the
other world -- from the abode of people who are dead; and tells me
so when she meets me alone here in the gloaming!  If I dared, I'd
touch you, to see if you are substance or shadow, you elf! -- but
I'd as soon offer to take hold of a blue ignis fatuus light in a
marsh.  Truant!  truant!"  he added, when he had paused an instant.
"Absent from me a whole month, and forgetting me quite, I'll be
sworn!"
I knew there would be pleasure in meeting my master again, even
though broken by the fear that he was so soon to cease to be my
master, and by the knowledge that I was nothing to him:  but there
was ever in Mr. Rochester (so at least I thought) such a wealth
of the power of communicating happiness, that to taste but of the
crumbs he scattered to stray and stranger birds like me, was to
feast genially.  His last words were balm:  they seemed to imply
that it imported something to him whether I forgot him or not.
And he had spoken of Thornfield as my home -- would that it were
my home!
He did not leave the stile, and I hardly liked to ask to go by.  I
inquired soon if he had not been to London.
"Yes; I suppose you found that out by second-sight."
"Mrs. Fairfax told me in a letter."
"And did she inform you what I went to do?"
"Oh, yes, sir!  Everybody knew your errand."
"You must see the carriage, Jane, and tell me if you don't think it
will suit Mrs. Rochester exactly; and whether she won't look like
Queen Boadicea, leaning back against those purple cushions.  I wish,
Jane, I were a trifle better adapted to match with her externally.
Tell me now, fairy as you are -- can't you give me a charm, or a
philter, or something of that sort, to make me a handsome man?"
"It would be past the power of magic, sir;" and, in thought, I added,
"A loving eye is all the charm needed:  to such you are handsome
enough; or rather your sternness has a power beyond beauty."
Mr. Rochester had sometimes read my unspoken thoughts with an acumen
to me incomprehensible:  in the present instance he took no notice
of my abrupt vocal response; but he smiled at me with a certain
smile he had of his own, and which he used but on rare occasions.
He seemed to think it too good for common purposes:  it was the
real sunshine of feeling -- he shed it over me now.
"Pass, Janet," said he, making room for me to cross the stile:  "go
up home, and stay your weary little wandering feet at a friend's
threshold."
All I had now to do was to obey him in silence:  no need for me
to colloquise further.  I got over the stile without a word, and
meant to leave him calmly.  An impulse held me fast -- a force turned
me round.  I said -- or something in me said for me, and in spite of me -
"Thank you, Mr. Rochester, for your great kindness.  I am strangely
glad to get back again to you:  and wherever you are is my home --
my only home."
I walked on so fast that even he could hardly have overtaken me
had he tried.  Little Adele was half wild with delight when she saw
me.  Mrs. Fairfax received me with her usual plain friendliness.
Leah smiled, and even Sophie bid me "bon soir" with glee.  This
was very pleasant; there is no happiness like that of being loved
by your fellow-creatures, and feeling that your presence is an
addition to their comfort.
I that evening shut my eyes resolutely against the future:  I stopped
my cars against the voice that kept warning me of near separation
and coming grief.  When tea was over and Mrs. Fairfax had taken
her knitting, and I had assumed a low seat near her, and Adele,
kneeling on the carpet, had nestled close up to me, and a sense of
mutual affection seemed to surround us with a ring of golden peace,
I uttered a silent prayer that we might not be parted far or soon;
but when, as we thus sat, Mr. Rochester entered, unannounced, and
looking at us, seemed to take pleasure in the spectacle of a group
so amicable -- when he said he supposed the old lady was all right
now that she had got her adopted daughter back again, and added
that he saw Adele was "prete e croquer sa petite maman Anglaise"
-- I half ventured to hope that he would, even after his marriage,
keep us together somewhere under the shelter of his protection,
and not quite exiled from the sunshine of his presence.
A fortnight of dubious calm succeeded my return to Thornfield Hall.
Nothing was said of the master's marriage, and I saw no preparation
going on for such an event.  Almost every day I asked Mrs. Fairfax
if she had yet heard anything decided:  her answer was always in
the negative.  Once she said she had actually put the question to
Mr. Rochester as to when he was going to bring his bride home; but
he had answered her only by a joke and one of his queer looks, and
she could not tell what to make of him.
One thing specially surprised me, and that was, there were no
journeyings backward and forward, no visits to Ingram Park:  to
be sure it was twenty miles off, on the borders of another county;
but what was that distance to an ardent lover?  To so practised
and indefatigable a horseman as Mr. Rochester, it would be but a
morning's ride.  I began to cherish hopes I had no right to conceive:
that the match was broken off; that rumour had been mistaken; that
one or both parties had changed their minds.  I used to look at
my master's face to see if it were sad or fierce; but I could not
remember the time when it had been so uniformly clear of clouds or
evil feelings.  If, in the moments I and my pupil spent with him, I
lacked spirits and sank into inevitable dejection, he became even
gay.  Never had he called me more frequently to his presence; never
been kinder to me when there -- and, alas!  never had I loved him
so well.
CHAPTER XXIII
A splendid Midsummer shone over England:  skies so pure, suns so
radiant as were then seen in long succession, seldom favour even
singly, our wave-girt land.  It was as if a band of Italian days
had come from the South, like a flock of glorious passenger birds,
and lighted to rest them on the cliffs of Albion.  The hay was
all got in; the fields round Thornfield were green and shorn; the
roads white and baked; the trees were in their dark prime; hedge
and wood, full-leaved and deeply tinted, contrasted well with the
sunny hue of the cleared meadows between.
On Midsummer-eve, Adele, weary with gathering wild strawberries
in Hay Lane half the day, had gone to bed with the sun.  I watched
her drop asleep, and when I left her, I sought the garden.
It was now the sweetest hour of the twenty-four:- "Day its fervid
fires had wasted," and dew fell cool on panting plain and scorched
summit.  Where the sun had gone down in simple state -- pure of the
pomp of clouds -- spread a solemn purple, burning with the light
of red jewel and furnace flame at one point, on one hill-peak, and
extending high and wide, soft and still softer, over half heaven.
The east had its own charm or fine deep blue, and its own modest
gem, a casino and solitary star:  soon it would boast the moon;
but she was yet beneath the horizon.
I walked a while on the pavement; but a subtle, well-known scent
-- that of a cigar -- stole from some window; I saw the library
casement open a handbreadth; I knew I might be watched thence; so
I went apart into the orchard.  No nook in the grounds more sheltered
and more Eden-like; it was full of trees, it bloomed with flowers:
a very high wall shut it out from the court, on one side; on the
other, a beech avenue screened it from the lawn.  At the bottom was
a sunk fence; its sole separation from lonely fields:  a winding
walk, bordered with laurels and terminating in a giant horse-chestnut,
circled at the base by a seat, led down to the fence.  Here one could
wander unseen.  While such honey-dew fell, such silence reigned,
such gloaming gathered, I felt as if I could haunt such shade for
ever; but in threading the flower and fruit parterres at the upper
part of the enclosure, enticed there by the light the now rising
moon cast on this more open quarter, my step is stayed -- not by
sound, not by sight, but once more by a warning fragrance.
Sweet-briar and southernwood, jasmine, pink, and rose have long
been yielding their evening sacrifice of incense:  this new scent
is neither of shrub nor flower; it is -- I know it well -- it is
Mr. Rochester's cigar.  I look round and I listen.  I see trees
laden with ripening fruit.  I hear a nightingale warbling in a wood
half a mile off; no moving form is visible, no coming step audible;
but that perfume increases:  I must flee.  I make for the wicket
leading to the shrubbery, and I see Mr. Rochester entering.  I step
aside into the ivy recess; he will not stay long:  he will soon
return whence he came, and if I sit still he will never see me.
But no -- eventide is as pleasant to him as to me, and this antique
garden as attractive; and he strolls on, now lifting the gooseberry-
tree branches to look at the fruit, large as plums, with which they
are laden; now taking a ripe cherry from the wall; now stooping
towards a knot of flowers, either to inhale their fragrance or to
admire the dew-beads on their petals.  A great moth goes humming
by me; it alights on a plant at Mr. Rochester's foot:  he sees it,
and bends to examine it.
"Now, he has his back towards me," thought I, "and he is occupied
too; perhaps, if I walk softly, I can slip away unnoticed."
I trode on an edging of turf that the crackle of the pebbly gravel
might not betray me:  he was standing among the beds at a yard or
two distant from where I had to pass; the moth apparently engaged
him.  "I shall get by very well," I meditated.  As I crossed his
shadow, thrown long over the garden by the moon, not yet
risen high, he said quietly, without turning -
"Jane, come and look at this fellow."
I had made no noise:  he had not eyes behind -- could his shadow
feel?  I started at first, and then I approached him.
"Look at his wings," said he, "he reminds me rather of a West Indian
insect; one does not often see so large and gay a night-rover in
England; there!  he is flown."
The moth roamed away.  I was sheepishly retreating also; but Mr.
Rochester followed me, and when we reached the wicket, he said -
"Turn back:  on so lovely a night it is a shame to sit in the house;
and surely no one can wish to go to bed while sunset is thus at
meeting with moonrise."
It is one of my faults, that though my tongue is sometimes prompt
enough at an answer, there are times when it sadly fails me in
framing an excuse; and always the lapse occurs at some crisis, when
a facile word or plausible pretext is specially wanted to get me
out of painful embarrassment.  I did not like to walk at this hour
alone with Mr. Rochester in the shadowy orchard; but I could not
find a reason to allege for leaving him.  I followed with lagging
step, and thoughts busily bent on discovering a means of extrication;
but he himself looked so composed and so grave also, I became
ashamed of feeling any confusion:  the evil -- if evil existent or
prospective there was -- seemed to lie with me only; his mind was
unconscious and quiet.
"Jane," he recommenced, as we entered the laurel walk, and slowly
strayed down in the direction of the sunk fence and the horse-chestnut,
"Thornfield is a pleasant place in summer, is it not?"
"Yes, sir."
"You must have become in some degree attached to the house, --
you, who have an eye for natural beauties, and a good deal of the
organ of Adhesiveness?"
"I am attached to it, indeed."
"And though I don't comprehend how it is, I perceive you have
acquired a degree of regard for that foolish little child Adele,
too; and even for simple dame Fairfax?"
"Yes, sir; in different ways, I have an affection for both."
"And would be sorry to part with them?"
"Yes."
"Pity!"  he said, and sighed and paused.  "It is always the way
of events in this life," he continued presently:  "no sooner have
you got settled in a pleasant resting-place, than a voice calls
out to you to rise and move on, for the hour of repose is expired."
"Must I move on, sir?"  I asked.  "Must I leave Thornfield?"
"I believe you must, Jane.  I am sorry, Janet, but I believe indeed
you must."
This was a blow:  but I did not let it prostrate me.
"Well, sir, I shall be ready when the order to march comes."
