
"It is come now -- I must give it to-night."
"Then you ARE going to be married, sir?"
"Ex-act-ly -- pre-cise-ly:  with your usual acuteness, you have
hit the nail straight on the head."
"Soon, sir?"
"Very soon, my -- that is, Miss Eyre:  and you'll remember, Jane,
the first time I, or Rumour, plainly intimated to you that it was
my intention to put my old bachelor's neck into the sacred noose,
to enter into the holy estate of matrimony -- to take Miss Ingram
to my bosom, in short (she's an extensive armful:  but that's not
to the point -- one can't have too much of such a very excellent
thing as my beautiful Blanche):  well, as I was saying -- listen to
me, Jane!  You're not turning your head to look after more moths,
are you?  That was only a lady-clock, child, 'flying away home.'
I wish to remind you that it was you who first said to me, with
that discretion I respect in you -- with that foresight, prudence,
and humility which befit your responsible and dependent position
-- that in case I married Miss Ingram, both you and little Adele
had better trot forthwith.  I pass over the sort of slur conveyed
in this suggestion on the character of my beloved; indeed, when
you are far away, Janet, I'll try to forget it:  I shall notice
only its wisdom; which is such that I have made it my law of
action.  Adele must go to school; and you, Miss Eyre, must get a
new situation."
"Yes, sir, I will advertise immediately:  and meantime, I suppose
-- " I was going to say, "I suppose I may stay here, till I find
another shelter to betake myself to:"  but I stopped, feeling it
would not do to risk a long sentence, for my voice was not quite
under command.
"In about a month I hope to be a bridegroom," continued Mr. Rochester;
"and in the interim, I shall myself look out for employment and an
asylum for you."
"Thank you, sir; I am sorry to give -- "
"Oh, no need to apologise!  I consider that when a dependent does
her duty as well as you have done yours, she has a sort of claim
upon her employer for any little assistance he can conveniently
render her; indeed I have already, through my future mother-in-law,
heard of a place that I think will suit:  it is to undertake the
education of the five daughters of Mrs. Dionysius O'Gall of Bitternutt
Lodge, Connaught, Ireland.  You'll like Ireland, I think:  they're
such warm-hearted people there, they say."
"It is a long way off, sir."
"No matter -- a girl of your sense will not object to the voyage
or the distance."
"Not the voyage, but the distance:  and then the sea is a barrier -- "
"From what, Jane?"
"From England and from Thornfield:  and -- "
"Well?"
"From YOU, sir."
I said this almost involuntarily, and, with as little sanction of
free will, my tears gushed out.  I did not cry so as to be heard,
however; I avoided sobbing.  The thought of Mrs. O'Gall and Bitternutt
Lodge struck cold to my heart; and colder the thought of all the
brine and foam, destined, as it seemed, to rush between me and the
master at whose side I now walked, and coldest the remembrance of
the wider ocean -- wealth, caste, custom intervened between me and
what I naturally and inevitably loved.
"It is a long way," I again said.
"It is, to be sure; and when you get to Bitternutt Lodge, Connaught,
Ireland, I shall never see you again, Jane:  that's morally certain.
I never go over to Ireland, not having myself much of a fancy for
the country.  We have been good friends, Jane; have we not?"
"Yes, sir."
"And when friends are on the eve of separation, they like to spend
the little time that remains to them close to each other.  Come!
we'll talk over the voyage and the parting quietly half-an-hour
or so, while the stars enter into their shining life up in heaven
yonder:  here is the chestnut tree:  here is the bench at its old
roots.  Come, we will sit there in peace to-night, though we should
never more be destined to sit there together."  He seated me and
himself.
"It is a long way to Ireland, Janet, and I am sorry to send my
little friend on such weary travels:  but if I can't do better,
how is it to be helped?  Are you anything akin to me, do you think,
Jane?"
I could risk no sort of answer by this time:  my heart was still.
"Because," he said, "I sometimes have a queer feeling with regard
to you -- especially when you are near me, as now:  it is as if I
had a string somewhere under my left ribs, tightly and inextricably
knotted to a similar string situated in the corresponding quarter
of your little frame.  And if that boisterous Channel, and two
hundred miles or so of land come broad between us, I am afraid that
cord of communion will be snapt; and then I've a nervous notion I
should take to bleeding inwardly.  As for you, -- you'd forget me."
"That I NEVER should, sir:  You know -- " Impossible to proceed.
"Jane, do you hear that nightingale singing in the wood?  Listen!"
In listening, I sobbed convulsively; for I could repress what I
endured no longer; I was obliged to yield, and I was shaken from
head to foot with acute distress.  When I did speak, it was only
to express an impetuous wish that I had never been born, or never
come to Thornfield.
"Because you are sorry to leave it?"
The vehemence of emotion, stirred by grief and love within me,
was claiming mastery, and struggling for full sway, and asserting
a right to predominate, to overcome, to live, rise, and reign at
last:  yes, -- and to speak.
"I grieve to leave Thornfield:  I love Thornfield:- I love it, because
I have lived in it a full and delightful life, -- momentarily at
least.  I have not been trampled on.  I have not been petrified.  I
have not been buried with inferior minds, and excluded from every
glimpse of communion with what is bright and energetic and high.
I have talked, face to face, with what I reverence, with what I
delight in, -- with an original, a vigorous, an expanded mind.  I
have known you, Mr. Rochester; and it strikes me with terror and
anguish to feel I absolutely must be torn from you for ever.  I see
the necessity of departure; and it is like looking on the necessity
of death."
"Where do you see the necessity?"  he asked suddenly.
"Where?  You, sir, have placed it before me."
"In what shape?"
"In the shape of Miss Ingram; a noble and beautiful woman, -- your
bride."
"My bride!  What bride?  I have no bride!"
"But you will have."
"Yes; -- I will! -- I will!"  He set his teeth.
"Then I must go:- you have said it yourself."
"No:  you must stay!  I swear it -- and the oath shall be kept."
"I tell you I must go!"  I retorted, roused to something like
passion.  "Do you think I can stay to become nothing to you?  Do
you think I am an automaton? -- a machine without feelings?  and
can bear to have my morsel of bread snatched from my lips, and my
drop of living water dashed from my cup?  Do you think, because I
am poor, obscure, plain, and little, I am soulless and heartless?
You think wrong! -- I have as much soul as you, -- and full as much
heart!  And if God had gifted me with some beauty and much wealth,
I should have made it as hard for you to leave me, as it is now for
me to leave you.  I am not talking to you now through the medium
of custom, conventionalities, nor even of mortal flesh; -- it is
my spirit that addresses your spirit; just as if both had passed
through the grave, and we stood at God's feet, equal, -- as we
are!"
"As we are!"  repeated Mr. Rochester -- "so," he added, enclosing
me in his arms.  Gathering me to his breast, pressing his lips on
my lips:  "so, Jane!"
"Yes, so, sir," I rejoined:  "and yet not so; for you are a married
man -- or as good as a married man, and wed to one inferior to you
-- to one with whom you have no sympathy -- whom I do not believe
you truly love; for I have seen and heard you sneer at her.  I would
scorn such a union:  therefore I am better than you -- let me go!"
"Where, Jane?  To Ireland?"
"Yes -- to Ireland.  I have spoken my mind, and can go anywhere
now."
"Jane, be still; don't struggle so, like a wild frantic bird that
is rending its own plumage in its desperation."
"I am no bird; and no net ensnares me; I am a free human being with
an independent will, which I now exert to leave you."
Another effort set me at liberty, and I stood erect before him.
"And your will shall decide your destiny," he said:  "I offer you
my hand, my heart, and a share of all my possessions."
"You play a farce, which I merely laugh at."
"I ask you to pass through life at my side -- to be my second self,
and best earthly companion."
