
Mrs. Fairfax surprised me by looking out of the window with a
sad countenance, and saying gravely -- "Miss Eyre, will you come
to breakfast?"  During the meal she was quiet and cool:  but I
could not undeceive her then.  I must wait for my master to give
explanations; and so must she.  I ate what I could, and then I
hastened upstairs.  I met Adele leaving the schoolroom.
"Where are you going?  It is time for lessons."
"Mr. Rochester has sent me away to the nursery."
"Where is he?"
"In there," pointing to the apartment she had left; and I went in,
and there he stood.
"Come and bid me good-morning," said he.  I gladly advanced; and it
was not merely a cold word now, or even a shake of the hand that I
received, but an embrace and a kiss.  It seemed natural:  it seemed
genial to be so well loved, so caressed by him.
"Jane, you look blooming, and smiling, and pretty," said he:
"truly pretty this morning.  Is this my pale, little elf?  Is this
my mustard-seed?  This little sunny-faced girl with the dimpled
cheek and rosy lips; the satin-smooth hazel hair, and the radiant
hazel eyes?"  (I had green eyes, reader; but you must excuse the
mistake:  for him they were new-dyed, I suppose.)
"It is Jane Eyre, sir."
"Soon to be Jane Rochester," he added:  "in four weeks, Janet; not
a day more.  Do you hear that?"
I did, and I could not quite comprehend it:  it made me giddy.  The
feeling, the announcement sent through me, was something stronger
than was consistent with joy -- something that smote and stunned.
It was, I think almost fear.
"You blushed, and now you are white, Jane:  what is that for?"
"Because you gave me a new name -- Jane Rochester; and it seems so
strange."
"Yes, Mrs. Rochester," said he; "young Mrs. Rochester -- Fairfax
Rochester's girl-bride."
"It can never be, sir; it does not sound likely.  Human beings
never enjoy complete happiness in this world.  I was not born for
a different destiny to the rest of my species:  to imagine such a
lot befalling me is a fairy tale -- a day-dream."
"Which I can and will realise.  I shall begin to-day.  This morning
I wrote to my banker in London to send me certain jewels he has in
his keeping, -- heirlooms for the ladies of Thornfield.  In a day
or two I hope to pour them into your lap:  for every privilege, every
attention shall be yours that I would accord a peer's daughter, if
about to marry her."
"Oh, sir! -- never rain jewels!  I don't like to hear them spoken
of.  Jewels for Jane Eyre sounds unnatural and strange:  I would
rather not have them."
"I will myself put the diamond chain round your neck, and the circlet
on your forehead, -- which it will become:  for nature, at least,
has stamped her patent of nobility on this brow, Jane; and I will
clasp the bracelets on these fine wrists, and load these fairy-like
fingers with rings."
"No, no, sir!  think of other subjects, and speak of other things,
and in another strain.  Don't address me as if I were a beauty; I
am your plain, Quakerish governess."
"You are a beauty in my eyes, and a beauty just after the desire
of my heart, -- delicate and aerial."
"Puny and insignificant, you mean.  You are dreaming, sir, -- or
you are sneering.  For God's sake don't be ironical!"
"I will make the world acknowledge you a beauty, too," he went on,
while I really became uneasy at the strain he had adopted, because
I felt he was either deluding himself or trying to delude me.  "I
will attire my Jane in satin and lace, and she shall have roses in
her hair; and I will cover the head I love best with a priceless
veil."
"And then you won't know me, sir; and I shall not be your Jane
Eyre any longer, but an ape in a harlequin's jacket -- a jay in
borrowed plumes.  I would as soon see you, Mr. Rochester, tricked
out in stage-trappings, as myself clad in a court-lady's robe; and
I don't call you handsome, sir, though I love you most dearly:  far
too dearly to flatter you.  Don't flatter me."
He pursued his theme, however, without noticing my deprecation.
"This very day I shall take you in the carriage to Millcote, and
you must choose some dresses for yourself.  I told you we shall be
married in four weeks.  The wedding is to take place quietly, in
the church down below yonder; and then I shall waft you away at
once to town.  After a brief stay there, I shall bear my treasure
to regions nearer the sun:  to French vineyards and Italian plains;
and she shall see whatever is famous in old story and in modern
record:  she shall taste, too, of the life of cities; and she shall
learn to value herself by just comparison with others."
"Shall I travel? -- and with you, sir?"
"You shall sojourn at Paris, Rome, and Naples:  at Florence,
Venice, and Vienna:  all the ground I have wandered over shall be
re-trodden by you:  wherever I stamped my hoof, your sylph's foot
shall step also.  Ten years since, I flew through Europe half mad;
with disgust, hate, and rage as my companions:  now I shall revisit
it healed and cleansed, with a very angel as my comforter."
I laughed at him as he said this.  "I am not an angel," I asserted;
"and I will not be one till I die:  I will be myself.  Mr. Rochester,
you must neither expect nor exact anything celestial of me -- for
you will not get it, any more than I shall get it of you:  which
I do not at all anticipate."
"What do you anticipate of me?"
"For a little while you will perhaps be as you are now, -- a very
little while; and then you will turn cool; and then you will be
capricious; and then you will be stern, and I shall have much ado
to please you:  but when you get well used to me, you will perhaps
like me again, -- LIKE me, I say, not LOVE me.  I suppose your love
will effervesce in six months, or less.  I have observed in books
written by men, that period assigned as the farthest to which a
husband's ardour extends.  Yet, after all, as a friend and companion,
I hope never to become quite distasteful to my dear master."
"Distasteful!  and like you again!  I think I shall like you again,
and yet again:  and I will make you confess I do not only LIKE,
but LOVE you -- with truth, fervour, constancy."
"Yet are you not capricious, sir?"
"To women who please me only by their faces, I am the very devil
when I find out they have neither souls nor hearts -- when they
open to me a perspective of flatness, triviality, and perhaps
imbecility, coarseness, and ill-temper:  but to the clear eye and
eloquent tongue, to the soul made of fire, and the character that
bends but does not break -- at once supple and stable, tractable
and consistent -- I am ever tender and true."
"Had you ever experience of such a character, sir?  Did you ever
love such an one?"
"I love it now."
"But before me:  if I, indeed, in any respect come up to your
difficult standard?"
"I never met your likeness.  Jane, you please me, and you master me
-- you seem to submit, and I like the sense of pliancy you impart;
and while I am twining the soft, silken skein round my finger, it
sends a thrill up my arm to my heart.  I am influenced -- conquered;
and the influence is sweeter than I can express; and the conquest
I undergo has a witchery beyond any triumph I can win.  Why do you
smile, Jane?  What does that inexplicable, that uncanny turn of
countenance mean?"
"I was thinking, sir (you will excuse the idea; it was involuntary),
I was thinking of Hercules and Samson with their charmers -- "
"You were, you little elfish -- "
"Hush, sir!  You don't talk very wisely just now; any more than
those gentlemen acted very wisely.  However, had they been married,
they would no doubt by their severity as husbands have made up for
their softness as suitors; and so will you, I fear.  I wonder how
you will answer me a year hence, should I ask a favour it does not
suit your convenience or pleasure to grant."
"Ask me something now, Jane, -- the least thing:  I desire
to be entreated -- "
"Indeed I will, sir; I have my petition all ready."
"Speak!  But if you look up and smile with that countenance, I shall
swear concession before I know to what, and that will make a fool
of me."
"Not at all, sir; I ask only this:  don't send for the jewels, and
don't crown me with roses:  you might as well put a border of gold
lace round that plain pocket handkerchief you have there."
"I might as well 'gild refined gold.'  I know it:  your request is
granted then -- for the time.  I will remand the order I despatched
to my banker.  But you have not yet asked for anything; you have
prayed a gift to be withdrawn:  try again."
"Well then, sir, have the goodness to gratify my curiosity, which
is much piqued on one point."
He looked disturbed.  "What?  what?"  he said hastily.  "Curiosity
is a dangerous petition:  it is well I have not taken a
vow to accord every request -- "
"But there can be no danger in complying with this, sir."
"Utter it, Jane:  but I wish that instead of a mere inquiry into,
perhaps, a secret, it was a wish for half my estate."
"Now, King Ahasuerus!  What do I want with half your estate?  Do
you think I am a Jew-usurer, seeking good investment in land?  I
would much rather have all your confidence.  You will not exclude
me from your confidence if you admit me to your heart?"
"You are welcome to all my confidence that is worth having, Jane;
but for God's sake, don't desire a useless burden!  Don't long for
poison -- don't turn out a downright Eve on my hands!"
"Why not, sir?  You have just been telling me how much you liked
to be conquered, and how pleasant over-persuasion is to you.  Don't
you think I had better take advantage of the confession, and begin
and coax and entreat -- even cry and be sulky if necessary -- for
the sake of a mere essay of my power?"
