
"I dare you to any such experiment.  Encroach, presume, and the
game is up."
"Is it, sir?  You soon give in.  How stern you look now!  Your
eyebrows have become as thick as my finger, and your forehead
resembles what, in some very astonishing poetry, I once saw styled,
'a blue-piled thunderloft.'  That will be your married look, sir,
I suppose?"
"If that will be YOUR married look, I, as a Christian, will soon
give up the notion of consorting with a mere sprite or salamander.
But what had you to ask, thing, -- out with it?"
"There, you are less than civil now; and I like rudeness a great
deal better than flattery.  I had rather be a THING than an angel.
This is what I have to ask, -- Why did you take such pains to make
me believe you wished to marry Miss Ingram?"
"Is that all?  Thank God it is no worse!"  And now he unknit his
black brows; looked down, smiling at me, and stroked my hair, as if
well pleased at seeing a danger averted.  "I think I may confess,"
he continued, "even although I should make you a little indignant,
Jane -- and I have seen what a fire-spirit you can be when you are
indignant.  You glowed in the cool moonlight last night, when you
mutinied against fate, and claimed your rank as my equal.  Janet,
by-the-bye, it was you who made me the offer."
"Of course I did.  But to the point if you please, sir -- Miss
Ingram?"
"Well, I feigned courtship of Miss Ingram, because I wished to
render you as madly in love with me as I was with you; and I knew
jealousy would be the best ally I could call in for the furtherance
of that end."
"Excellent!  Now you are small -- not one whit bigger than the
end of my little finger.  It was a burning shame and a scandalous
disgrace to act in that way.  Did you think nothing of Miss Ingram's
feelings, sir?"
"Her feelings are concentrated in one -- pride; and that needs
humbling.  Were you jealous, Jane?"
"Never mind, Mr. Rochester:  it is in no way interesting to you
to know that.  Answer me truly once more.  Do you think Miss Ingram
will not suffer from your dishonest coquetry?  Won't she feel
forsaken and deserted?"
"Impossible! -- when I told you how she, on the contrary, deserted
me:  the idea of my insolvency cooled, or rather extinguished, her
flame in a moment."
"You have a curious, designing mind, Mr. Rochester.  I am afraid
your principles on some points are eccentric."
"My principles were never trained, Jane:  they may have grown a
little awry for want of attention."
"Once again, seriously; may I enjoy the great good that has been
vouchsafed to me, without fearing that any one else is suffering
the bitter pain I myself felt a while ago?"
"That you may, my good little girl:  there is not another being in
the world has the same pure love for me as yourself -- for I lay
that pleasant unction to my soul, Jane, a belief in your affection."
I turned my lips to the hand that lay on my shoulder.  I loved him
very much -- more than I could trust myself to say -- more than
words had power to express.
"Ask something more," he said presently; "it is my delight to be
entreated, and to yield."
I was again ready with my request.  "Communicate your intentions
to Mrs. Fairfax, sir:  she saw me with you last night in the hall,
and she was shocked.  Give her some explanation before I see her
again.  It pains me to be misjudged by so good a woman."
"Go to your room, and put on your bonnet," he replied.  "I mean
you to accompany me to Millcote this morning; and while you prepare
for the drive, I will enlighten the old lady's understanding.  Did
she think, Janet, you had given the world for love, and considered
it well lost?"
"I believe she thought I had forgotten my station, and yours, sir."
"Station!  station! -- your station is in my heart, and on the
necks of those who would insult you, now or hereafter. -- Go."
I was soon dressed; and when I heard Mr. Rochester quit Mrs.
Fairfax's parlour, I hurried down to it.  The old lady, had been
reading her morning portion of Scripture -- the Lesson for the
day; her Bible lay open before her, and her spectacles were upon
it.  Her occupation, suspended by Mr. Rochester's announcement,
seemed now forgotten:  her eyes, fixed on the blank wall opposite,
expressed the surprise of a quiet mind stirred by unwonted tidings.
Seeing me, she roused herself:  she made a sort of effort to smile,
and framed a few words of congratulation; but the smile expired, and
the sentence was abandoned unfinished.  She put up her spectacles,
shut the Bible, and pushed her chair back from the table.
"I feel so astonished," she began, "I hardly know what to say to
you, Miss Eyre.  I have surely not been dreaming, have I? Sometimes
I half fall asleep when I am sitting alone and fancy things that
have never happened.  It has seemed to me more than once when I
have been in a doze, that my dear husband, who died fifteen years
since, has come in and sat down beside me; and that I have even
heard him call me by my name, Alice, as he used to do.  Now, can
you tell me whether it is actually true that Mr. Rochester has
asked you to marry him?  Don't laugh at me.  But I really thought
he came in here five minutes ago, and said that in a month you
would be his wife."
"He has said the same thing to me," I replied.
"He has!  Do you believe him?  Have you accepted him?"
"Yes."
She looked at me bewildered.  "I could never have thought it.  He
is a proud man:  all the Rochesters were proud:  and his father,
at least, liked money.  He, too, has always been called careful.
He means to marry you?"
"He tells me so."
She surveyed my whole person:  in her eyes I read that they had
there found no charm powerful enough to solve the enigma.
"It passes me!"  she continued; "but no doubt, it is true since you
say so.  How it will answer, I cannot tell:  I really don't know.
Equality of position and fortune is often advisable in such cases;
and there are twenty years of difference in your ages.  He might
almost be your father."
"No, indeed, Mrs. Fairfax!"  exclaimed I, nettled; "he is nothing
like my father!  No one, who saw us together, would suppose it for
an instant.  Mr. Rochester looks as young, and is as young, as some
men at five-and-twenty."
"Is it really for love he is going to marry you?"  she asked.
I was so hurt by her coldness and scepticism, that the tears rose
to my eyes.
"I am sorry to grieve you," pursued the widow; "but you are
so young, and so little acquainted with men, I wished to put you
on your guard.  It is an old saying that 'all is not gold that
glitters;' and in this case I do fear there will be something found
to be different to what either you or I expect."
"Why? -- am I a monster?"  I said:  "is it impossible that Mr.
Rochester should have a sincere affection for me?"
"No:  you are very well; and much improved of late; and Mr. Rochester,
I daresay, is fond of you.  I have always noticed that you were a
sort of pet of his.  There are times when, for your sake, I have
been a little uneasy at his marked preference, and have wished
to put you on your guard:  but I did not like to suggest even the
possibility of wrong.  I knew such an idea would shock, perhaps
offend you; and you were so discreet, and so thoroughly modest and
sensible, I hoped you might be trusted to protect yourself.  Last
night I cannot tell you what I suffered when I sought all over
the house, and could find you nowhere, nor the master either; and
then, at twelve o'clock, saw you come in with him."
"Well, never mind that now," I interrupted impatiently; "it is
enough that all was right."
"I hope all will be right in the end," she said:  "but believe me,
you cannot be too careful.  Try and keep Mr. Rochester at a distance:
distrust yourself as well as him.  Gentlemen in his station are
not accustomed to marry their governesses."
I was growing truly irritated:  happily, Adele ran in.
"Let me go, -- let me go to Millcote too!"  she cried.  "Mr. Rochester
won't:  though there is so much room in the new carriage.  Beg him
to let me go mademoiselle."
"That I will, Adele;" and I hastened away with her, glad to quit
my gloomy monitress.  The carriage was ready:  they were bringing
it round to the front, and my master was on the pavement, Pilot
following him backwards and forwards.
"Adele may accompany us, may she not, sir?"
"I told her no.  I'll have no brats! -- I'll have only you."
"Do let her go, Mr. Rochester, if you please:  it would be better."
"Not it:  she will be a restraint."
He was quite peremptory, both in look and voice.  The chill of
Mrs. Fairfax's warnings, and the damp of her doubts were upon me:
something of unsubstantiality and uncertainty had beset my hopes.
I half lost the sense of power over him.  I was about mechanically
to obey him, without further remonstrance; but as he helped me into
the carriage, he looked at my face.
"What is the matter?"  he asked; "all the sunshine is gone.  Do
you really wish the bairn to go?  Will it annoy you if she is left
behind?"
"I would far rather she went, sir."
"Then off for your bonnet, and back like a flash of lightning!"
cried he to Adele.
She obeyed him with what speed she might.
