
"After all, a single morning's interruption will not matter much,"
said he, "when I mean shortly to claim you -- your thoughts,
conversation, and company -- for life."
Adele, when lifted in, commenced kissing me, by way of expressing
her gratitude for my intercession:  she was instantly stowed away
into a corner on the other side of him.  She then peeped round to
where I sat; so stern a neighbour was too restrictive to him, in
his present fractious mood, she dared whisper no observations, nor
ask of him any information.
"Let her come to me," I entreated:  "she will, perhaps, trouble
you, sir:  there is plenty of room on this side."
He handed her over as if she had been a lapdog.  "I'll send her to
school yet," he said, but now he was smiling.
Adele heard him, and asked if she was to go to school "sans
mademoiselle?"
"Yes," he replied, "absolutely sans mademoiselle; for I am to take
mademoiselle to the moon, and there I shall seek a cave in one of
the white valleys among the volcano-tops, and mademoiselle shall
live with me there, and only me."
"She will have nothing to eat:  you will starve her," observed
Adele.
"I shall gather manna for her morning and night:  the plains and
hillsides in the moon are bleached with manna, Adele."
"She will want to warm herself:  what will she do for a fire?"
"Fire rises out of the lunar mountains:  when she is cold, I'll
carry her up to a peak, and lay her down on the edge of a crater."
"Oh, qu' elle y sera mal -- peu comfortable!  And her clothes, they
will wear out:  how can she get new ones?"
Mr. Rochester professed to be puzzled.  "Hem!"  said he.  "What
would you do, Adele?  Cudgel your brains for an expedient.  How
would a white or a pink cloud answer for a gown, do you think?  And
one could cut a pretty enough scarf out of a rainbow."
"She is far better as she is," concluded Adele, after musing some
time:  "besides, she would get tired of living with only you in
the moon.  If I were mademoiselle, I would never consent to go with
you."
"She has consented:  she has pledged her word."
"But you can't get her there; there is no road to the moon:  it is
all air; and neither you nor she can fly."
"Adele, look at that field."  We were now outside Thornfield gates,
and bowling lightly along the smooth road to Millcote, where the
dust was well laid by the thunderstorm, and, where the low hedges
and lofty timber trees on each side glistened green and rain-refreshed.
"In that field, Adele, I was walking late one evening about
a fortnight since -- the evening of the day you helped me to make
hay in the orchard meadows; and, as I was tired with raking swaths,
I sat down to rest me on a stile; and there I took out a little book
and a pencil, and began to write about a misfortune that befell me
long ago, and a wish I had for happy days to come:  I was writing
away very fast, though daylight was fading from the leaf, when
something came up the path and stopped two yards off me.  I looked
at it.  It was a little thing with a veil of gossamer on its head.
I beckoned it to come near me; it stood soon at my knee.  I never
spoke to it, and it never spoke to me, in words; but I read its eyes,
and it read mine; and our speechless colloquy was to this effect -
"It was a fairy, and come from Elf-land, it said; and its errand
was to make me happy:  I must go with it out of the common world to
a lonely place -- such as the moon, for instance -- and it nodded
its head towards her horn, rising over Hay-hill:  it told me of
the alabaster cave and silver vale where we might live.  I said I
should like to go; but reminded it, as you did me, that I had no
wings to fly.
"'Oh,' returned the fairy, 'that does not signify!  Here is a
talisman will remove all difficulties;' and she held out a pretty
gold ring.  'Put it,' she said, 'on the fourth finger of my left
hand, and I am yours, and you are mine; and we shall leave earth,
and make our own heaven yonder.'  She nodded again at the moon.
The ring, Adele, is in my breeches-pocket, under the disguise of
a sovereign:  but I mean soon to change it to a ring again."
"But what has mademoiselle to do with it?  I don't care for the
fairy:  you said it was mademoiselle you would take to the moon?"
"Mademoiselle is a fairy," he said, whispering mysteriously.  Whereupon
I told her not to mind his badinage; and she, on her part, evinced
a fund of genuine French scepticism:  denominating Mr. Rochester "un
vrai menteur," and assuring him that she made no account whatever
of his "contes de fee," and that "du reste, il n'y avait pas de
fees, et quand meme il y en avait:"  she was sure they would never
appear to him, nor ever give him rings, or offer to live with him
in the moon.
The hour spent at Millcote was a somewhat harassing one to me.  Mr.
Rochester obliged me to go to a certain silk warehouse:  there I
was ordered to choose half-a-dozen dresses.  I hated the business,
I begged leave to defer it:  no -- it should be gone through with
now.  By dint of entreaties expressed in energetic whispers, I
reduced the half-dozen to two:  these however, he vowed he would
select himself.  With anxiety I watched his eye rove over the gay
stores:  he fixed on a rich silk of the most brilliant amethyst dye,
and a superb pink satin.  I told him in a new series of whispers,
that he might as well buy me a gold gown and a silver bonnet at
once:  I should certainly never venture to wear his choice.  With
infinite difficulty, for he was stubborn as a stone, I persuaded him
to make an exchange in favour of a sober black satin and pearl-grey
silk.  "It might pass for the present," he said; "but he would yet
see me glittering like a parterre."
Glad was I to get him out of the silk warehouse, and then out of
a jewellers shop:  the more he bought me, the more my cheek burned
with a sense of annoyance and degradation.  As we re-entered the
carriage, and I sat back feverish and fagged, I remembered what,
in the hurry of events, dark and bright, I had wholly forgotten --
the letter of my uncle, John Eyre, to Mrs. Reed:  his intention to
adopt me and make me his legatee.  "It would, indeed, be a relief,"
I thought, "if I had ever so small an independency; I never can
bear being dressed like a doll by Mr. Rochester, or sitting like
a second Danae with the golden shower falling daily round me.  I
will write to Madeira the moment I get home, and tell my uncle John
I am going to be married, and to whom:  if I had but a prospect
of one day bringing Mr. Rochester an accession of fortune, I could
better endure to be kept by him now."  And somewhat relieved by
this idea (which I failed not to execute that day), I ventured once
more to meet my master's and lover's eye, which most pertinaciously
sought mine, though I averted both face and gaze.  He smiled; and
I thought his smile was such as a sultan might, in a blissful and
fond moment, bestow on a slave his gold and gems had enriched:  I
crushed his hand, which was ever hunting mine, vigorously, and
thrust it back to him red with the passionate pressure.
"You need not look in that way," I said; "if you do, I'll wear
nothing but my old Lowood frocks to the end of the chapter.  I'll
be married in this lilac gingham:  you may make a dressing-gown
for yourself out of the pearl-grey silk, and an infinite series of
waistcoats out of the black satin."
He chuckled; he rubbed his hands.  "Oh, it is rich to see and hear
her?"  he exclaimed.  "Is she original?  Is she piquant?  I would
not exchange this one little English girl for the Grand Turk's
whole seraglio, gazelle-eyes, houri forms, and all!"
The Eastern allusion bit me again.  "I'll not stand you an inch in
the stead of a seraglio," I said; "so don't consider me an equivalent
for one.  If you have a fancy for anything in that line, away with
you, sir, to the bazaars of Stamboul without delay, and lay out
in extensive slave-purchases some of that spare cash you seem at
a loss to spend satisfactorily here."
"And what will you do, Janet, while I am bargaining for so many
tons of flesh and such an assortment of black eyes?"
"I'll be preparing myself to go out as a missionary to preach
liberty to them that are enslaved -- your harem inmates amongst the
rest.  I'll get admitted there, and I'll stir up mutiny; and you,
three-tailed bashaw as you are, sir, shall in a trice find yourself
fettered amongst our hands:  nor will I, for one, consent to cut
your bonds till you have signed a charter, the most liberal that
despot ever yet conferred."
"I would consent to be at your mercy, Jane."
"I would have no mercy, Mr. Rochester, if you supplicated for it
with an eye like that.  While you looked so, I should be certain
that whatever charter you might grant under coercion, your first
act, when released, would be to violate its conditions."
"Why, Jane, what would you have?  I fear you will compel me to go
through a private marriage ceremony, besides that performed at the
altar.  You will stipulate, I see, for peculiar terms -- what will
they be?"
"I only want an easy mind, sir; not crushed by crowded obligations.
Do you remember what you said of Celine Varens? -- of the diamonds,
the cashmeres you gave her?  I will not be your English Celine
Varens.  I shall continue to act as Adele's governess; by that I
shall earn my board and lodging, and thirty pounds a year besides.
I'll furnish my own wardrobe out of that money, and you
shall give me nothing but -- "
"Well, but what?"
"Your regard; and if I give you mine in return, that debt will be
quit."
"Well, for cool native impudence and pure innate pride, you haven't
your equal," said he.  We were now approaching Thornfield.  "Will
it please you to dine with me to-day?"  he asked, as we re-entered
the gates.
"No, thank you, sir."
"And what for, 'no, thank you?'  if one may inquire."
"I never have dined with you, sir:  and I see no reason
why I should now:  till -- "
"Till what?  You delight in half-phrases."
"Till I can't help it."
"Do you suppose I eat like an ogre or a ghoul, that you dread being
the companion of my repast?"
"I have formed no supposition on the subject, sir; but I want to
go on as usual for another month."
"You will give up your governessing slavery at once."
"Indeed, begging your pardon, sir, I shall not.  I shall just go
on with it as usual.  I shall keep out of your way all day, as I
have been accustomed to do:  you may send for me in the evening,
when you feel disposed to see me, and I'll come then; but at no
other time."
"I want a smoke, Jane, or a pinch of snuff, to comfort me under
all this, 'pour me donner une contenance,' as Adele would say; and
unfortunately I have neither my cigar-case, nor my snuff-box.  But
listen -- whisper.  It is your time now, little tyrant, but it will
be mine presently; and when once I have fairly seized you, to have
and to hold, I'll just -- figuratively speaking -- attach you to
a chain like this" (touching his watch-guard).  "Yes, bonny wee
thing, I'll wear you in my bosom, lest my jewel I should tyne."
He said this as he helped me to alight from the carriage, and while
he afterwards lifted out Adele, I entered the house, and made good
my retreat upstairs.
He duly summoned me to his presence in the evening.  I had prepared
an occupation for him; for I was determined not to spend the whole
time in a tete-e-tete conversation.  I remembered his fine voice;
I knew he liked to sing -- good singers generally do.  I was
no vocalist myself, and, in his fastidious judgment, no musician,
either; but I delighted in listening when the performance was good.
No sooner had twilight, that hour of romance, began to lower her
blue and starry banner over the lattice, than I rose, opened the
piano, and entreated him, for the love of heaven, to give me a
song.  He said I was a capricious witch, and that he would rather
sing another time; but I averred that no time was like the present.
"Did I like his voice?"  he asked.
"Very much."  I was not fond of pampering that susceptible vanity
of his; but for once, and from motives of expediency, I would e'en
soothe and stimulate it.
"Then, Jane, you must play the accompaniment."
