
I obeyed:  joy made me agile:  I sprang up before him.  A hearty
kissing I got for a welcome, and some boastful triumph, which I
swallowed as well as I could.  He checked himself in his exultation
to demand, "But is there anything the matter, Janet, that you come
to meet me at such an hour?  Is there anything wrong?"
"No, but I thought you would never come.  I could not bear to wait
in the house for you, especially with this rain and wind."
"Rain and wind, indeed!  Yes, you are dripping like a mermaid; pull
my cloak round you:  but I think you are feverish, Jane:  both your
cheek and hand are burning hot.  I ask again, is there anything
the matter?
"Nothing now; I am neither afraid nor unhappy."
"Then you have been both?"
"Rather:  but I'll tell you all about it by-and-bye, sir; and I
daresay you will only laugh at me for my pains."
"I'll laugh at you heartily when to-morrow is past; till then I
dare not:  my prize is not certain.  This is you, who have been as
slippery as an eel this last month, and as thorny as a briar-rose?
I could not lay a finger anywhere but I was pricked; and now I seem
to have gathered up a stray lamb in my arms.  You wandered out of
the fold to seek your shepherd, did you, Jane?"
"I wanted you:  but don't boast.  Here we are at Thornfield:  now
let me get down."
He landed me on the pavement.  As John took his horse, and he followed
me into the hall, he told me to make haste and put something dry
on, and then return to him in the library; and he stopped me, as
I made for the staircase, to extort a promise that I would not be
long:  nor was I long; in five minutes I rejoined him.  I found
him at supper.
"Take a seat and bear me company, Jane:  please God, it is the last
meal but one you will eat at Thornfield Hall for a long time."
I sat down near him, but told him I could not eat.  "Is it because
you have the prospect of a journey before you, Jane?  Is it the
thoughts of going to London that takes away your appetite?"
"I cannot see my prospects clearly to-night, sir; and I hardly know
what thoughts I have in my head.  Everything in life seems unreal."
"Except me:  I am substantial enough -- touch me."
"You, sir, are the most phantom-like of all:  you are a mere dream."
He held out his hand, laughing.  "Is that a dream?"  said he, placing
it close to my eyes.  He had a rounded, muscular, and vigorous
hand, as well as a long, strong arm.
"Yes; though I touch it, it is a dream," said I, as I put it down
from before my face.  "Sir, have you finished supper?"
"Yes, Jane."
I rang the bell and ordered away the tray.  When we were again
alone, I stirred the fire, and then took a low seat at my master's
knee.
"It is near midnight," I said.
"Yes:  but remember, Jane, you promised to wake with me the night
before my wedding."
"I did; and I will keep my promise, for an hour or two at least:
I have no wish to go to bed."
"Are all your arrangements complete?"
"All, sir."
"And on my part likewise," he returned, "I have settled everything;
and we shall leave Thornfield to-morrow, within half-an-hour after
our return from church."
"Very well, sir."
"With what an extraordinary smile you uttered that word -- 'very
well,' Jane!  What a bright spot of colour you have on each cheek!
and how strangely your eyes glitter!  Are you well?"
"I believe I am."
"Believe!  What is the matter?  Tell me what you feel."
"I could not, sir:  no words could tell you what I feel.  I wish
this present hour would never end:  who knows with what fate the
next may come charged?"
"This is hypochondria, Jane.  You have been over-excited, or
over-fatigued."
"Do you, sir, feel calm and happy?"
"Calm? -- no:  but happy -- to the heart's core."
I looked up at him to read the signs of bliss in his face:  it was
ardent and flushed.
"Give me your confidence, Jane," he said:  "relieve your mind of
any weight that oppresses it, by imparting it to me.  What do you
fear?- -that I shall not prove a good husband?"
"It is the idea farthest from my thoughts."
"Are you apprehensive of the new sphere you are about to enter? --
of the new life into which you are passing?"
"No."
"You puzzle me, Jane:  your look and tone of sorrowful audacity
perplex and pain me.  I want an explanation."
"Then, sir, listen.  You were from home last night?"
"I was:  I know that; and you hinted a while ago at something which
had happened in my absence:- nothing, probably, of consequence;
but, in short, it has disturbed you.  Let me hear it.  Mrs. Fairfax
has said something, perhaps?  or you have overheard the servants
talk? -- your sensitive self-respect has been wounded?"
"No, sir."  It struck twelve -- I waited till the time-piece had
concluded its silver chime, and the clock its hoarse, vibrating
stroke, and then I proceeded.
"All day yesterday I was very busy, and very happy in my ceaseless
bustle; for I am not, as you seem to think, troubled by any haunting
fears about the new sphere, et cetera:  I think it a glorious
thing to have the hope of living with you, because I love you.  No,
sir, don't caress me now -- let me talk undisturbed.  Yesterday I
trusted well in Providence, and believed that events were working
together for your good and mine:  it was a fine day, if you recollect
-- the calmness of the air and sky forbade apprehensions respecting
your safety or comfort on your journey.  I walked a little while
on the pavement after tea, thinking of you; and I beheld you in
imagination so near me, I scarcely missed your actual presence.
I thought of the life that lay before me -- YOUR life, sir -- an
existence more expansive and stirring than my own:  as much more
so as the depths of the sea to which the brook runs are than the
shallows of its own strait channel.  I wondered why moralists call
this world a dreary wilderness:  for me it blossomed like a rose.
Just at sunset, the air turned cold and the sky cloudy:  I went in,
Sophie called me upstairs to look at my wedding-dress, which they
had just brought; and under it in the box I found your present --
the veil which, in your princely extravagance, you sent for from
London:  resolved, I suppose, since I would not have jewels, to
cheat me into accepting something as costly.  I smiled as I unfolded
it, and devised how I would tease you about your aristocratic tastes,
and your efforts to masque your plebeian bride in the attributes
of a peeress.  I though how I would carry down to you the square
of unembroidered blond I had myself prepared as a covering for my
low-born head, and ask if that was not good enough for a woman who
could bring her husband neither fortune, beauty, nor connections.
I saw plainly how you would look; and heard your impetuous republican
answers, and your haughty disavowal of any necessity on your part
to augment your wealth, or elevate your standing, by marrying either
a purse or a coronet."
"How well you read me, you witch!"  interposed Mr. Rochester:  "but
what did you find in the veil besides its embroidery?  Did you find
poison, or a dagger, that you look so mournful now?"
"No, no, sir; besides the delicacy and richness of the fabric,
I found nothing save Fairfax Rochester's pride; and that did not
scare me, because I am used to the sight of the demon.  But, sir,
as it grew dark, the wind rose:  it blew yesterday evening, not as
it blows now -- wild and high -- but 'with a sullen, moaning sound'
far more eerie.  I wished you were at home.  I came into this room,
and the sight of the empty chair and fireless hearth chilled me.
For some time after I went to bed, I could not sleep -- a sense of
anxious excitement distressed me.  The gale still rising, seemed
to my ear to muffle a mournful under-sound; whether in the house
or abroad I could not at first tell, but it recurred, doubtful
yet doleful at every lull; at last I made out it must be some dog
howling at a distance.  I was glad when it ceased.  On sleeping, I
continued in dreams the idea of a dark and gusty night.  I continued
also the wish to be with you, and experienced a strange, regretful
consciousness of some barrier dividing us.  During all my first
sleep, I was following the windings of an unknown road; total
obscurity environed me; rain pelted me; I was burdened with the
charge of a little child:  a very small creature, too young and
feeble to walk, and which shivered in my cold arms, and wailed
piteously in my ear.  I thought, sir, that you were on the road
a long way before me; and I strained every nerve to overtake you,
and made effort on effort to utter your name and entreat you to
stop -- but my movements were fettered, and my voice still died
away inarticulate; while you, I felt, withdrew farther and farther
every moment."
"And these dreams weigh on your spirits now, Jane, when I am close
to you?  Little nervous subject!  Forget visionary woe, and think
only of real happiness!  You say you love me, Janet:  yes -- I will
not forget that; and you cannot deny it.  THOSE words did not die
inarticulate on your lips.  I heard them clear and soft:  a thought
too solemn perhaps, but sweet as music -- 'I think it is a glorious
thing to have the hope of living with you, Edward, because I love
you.'  Do you love me, Jane? -- repeat it."
"I do, sir -- I do, with my whole heart."
"Well," he said, after some minutes' silence, "it is strange; but
that sentence has penetrated my breast painfully.  Why?  I think
because you said it with such an earnest, religious energy, and
because your upward gaze at me now is the very sublime of faith,
truth, and devotion:  it is too much as if some spirit were near
me.  Look wicked, Jane:  as you know well how to look:  coin one
of your wild, shy, provoking smiles; tell me you hate me -- tease
me, vex me; do anything but move me:  I would rather be incensed
than saddened."
"I will tease you and vex you to your heart's content, when I have
finished my tale:  but hear me to the end."
"I thought, Jane, you had told me all.  I thought I had found the
source of your melancholy in a dream."
I shook my head.  "What!  is there more?  But I will not believe
it to be anything important.  I warn you of incredulity beforehand.
Go on."
