
The disquietude of his air, the somewhat apprehensive impatience
of his manner, surprised me:  but I proceeded.
"I dreamt another dream, sir:  that Thornfield Hall was a dreary
ruin, the retreat of bats and owls.  I thought that of all the
stately front nothing remained but a shell-like wall, very high and
very fragile-looking.  I wandered, on a moonlight night, through
the grass-grown enclosure within:  here I stumbled over a marble
hearth, and there over a fallen fragment of cornice.  Wrapped up
in a shawl, I still carried the unknown little child:  I might not
lay it down anywhere, however tired were my arms -- however much its
weight impeded my progress, I must retain it.  I heard the gallop
of a horse at a distance on the road; I was sure it was you; and
you were departing for many years and for a distant country.  I
climbed the thin wall with frantic perilous haste, eager to catch
one glimpse of you from the top:  the stones rolled from under my
feet, the ivy branches I grasped gave way, the child clung round
my neck in terror, and almost strangled me; at last I gained the
summit.  I saw you like a speck on a white track, lessening every
moment.  The blast blew so strong I could not stand.  I sat down
on the narrow ledge; I hushed the scared infant in my lap:  you
turned an angle of the road:  I bent forward to take a last look;
the wall crumbled; I was shaken; the child rolled from my knee, I
lost my balance, fell, and woke."
"Now, Jane, that is all."
"All the preface, sir; the tale is yet to come.  On waking, a
gleam dazzled my eyes; I thought -- Oh, it is daylight!  But I was
mistaken; it was only candlelight.  Sophie, I supposed, had come
in.  There was a light in the dressing-table, and the door of the
closet, where, before going to bed, I had hung my wedding-dress
and veil, stood open; I heard a rustling there.  I asked, 'Sophie,
what are you doing?'  No one answered; but a form emerged from the
closet; it took the light, held it aloft, and surveyed the garments
pendent from the portmanteau.  'Sophie!  Sophie!'  I again cried:
and still it was silent.  I had risen up in bed, I bent forward:
first surprise, then bewilderment, came over me; and then my blood
crept cold through my veins.  Mr. Rochester, this was not Sophie,
it was not Leah, it was not Mrs. Fairfax:  it was not -- no, I was
sure of it, and am still -- it was not even that strange woman,
Grace Poole."
"It must have been one of them," interrupted my master.
"No, sir, I solemnly assure you to the contrary.  The shape
standing before me had never crossed my eyes within the precincts
of Thornfield Hall before; the height, the contour were new to me."
"Describe it, Jane."
"It seemed, sir, a woman, tall and large, with thick and dark hair
hanging long down her back.  I know not what dress she had on:
it was white and straight; but whether gown, sheet, or shroud, I
cannot tell."
"Did you see her face?"
"Not at first.  But presently she took my veil from its place; she
held it up, gazed at it long, and then she threw it over her own
head, and turned to the mirror.  At that moment I saw the reflection
of the visage and features quite distinctly in the dark oblong
glass."
"And how were they?"
"Fearful and ghastly to me -- oh, sir, I never saw a face like it!
It was a discoloured face -- it was a savage face.  I wish I could
forget the roll of the red eyes and the fearful blackened inflation
of the lineaments!"
"Ghosts are usually pale, Jane."
"This, sir, was purple:  the lips were swelled and dark; the brow
furrowed:  the black eyebrows widely raised over the bloodshot
eyes.  Shall I tell you of what it reminded me?"
"You may."
"Of the foul German spectre -- the Vampyre."
"Ah! -- what did it do?"
"Sir, it removed my veil from its gaunt head, rent it in two parts,
and flinging both on the floor, trampled on them."
"Afterwards?"
"It drew aside the window-curtain and looked out; perhaps it saw
dawn approaching, for, taking the candle, it retreated to the door.
Just at my bedside, the figure stopped:  the fiery eyes glared upon
me -- she thrust up her candle close to my face, and extinguished
it under my eyes.  I was aware her lurid visage flamed over mine,
and I lost consciousness:  for the second time in my life -- only
the second time -- I became insensible from terror."
"Who was with you when you revived?"
"No one, sir, but the broad day.  I rose, bathed my head and face
in water, drank a long draught; felt that though enfeebled I was
not ill, and determined that to none but you would I impart this
vision.  Now, sir, tell me who and what that woman was?"
"The creature of an over-stimulated brain; that is certain.  I must
be careful of you, my treasure:  nerves like yours were not made
for rough handling."
"Sir, depend on it, my nerves were not in fault; the thing was
real:  the transaction actually took place."
"And your previous dreams, were they real too?  Is Thornfield
Hall a ruin?  Am I severed from you by insuperable obstacles?  Am
I leaving you without a tear -- without a kiss -- without a word?"
"Not yet."
"Am I about to do it?  Why, the day is already commenced which is
to bind us indissolubly; and when we are once united, there shall
be no recurrence of these mental terrors:  I guarantee that."
"Mental terrors, sir!  I wish I could believe them to be only such:
I wish it more now than ever; since even you cannot explain to me
the mystery of that awful visitant."
"And since I cannot do it, Jane, it must have been unreal."
"But, sir, when I said so to myself on rising this morning, and
when I looked round the room to gather courage and comfort from the
cheerful aspect of each familiar object in full daylight, there --
on the carpet -- I saw what gave the distinct lie to my hypothesis,
-- the veil, torn from top to bottom in two halves!"
I felt Mr. Rochester start and shudder; he hastily flung his arms
round me.  "Thank God!"  he exclaimed, "that if anything malignant
did come near you last night, it was only the veil that was harmed.
Oh, to think what might have happened!"
He drew his breath short, and strained me so close to him, I could
scarcely pant.  After some minutes' silence, he continued, cheerily -
"Now, Janet, I'll explain to you all about it.  It was half dream,
half reality.  A woman did, I doubt not, enter your room:  and that
woman was -- must have been -- Grace Poole.  You call her a strange
being yourself:  from all you know, you have reason so to call
her -- what did she do to me?  what to Mason?  In a state between
sleeping and waking, you noticed her entrance and her actions;
but feverish, almost delirious as you were, you ascribed to her
a goblin appearance different from her own:  the long dishevelled
hair, the swelled black face, the exaggerated stature, were figments
of imagination; results of nightmare:  the spiteful tearing of the
veil was real:  and it is like her.  I see you would ask why I keep
such a woman in my house:  when we have been married a year and a
day, I will tell you; but not now.  Are you satisfied, Jane?  Do
you accept my solution of the mystery?"
I reflected, and in truth it appeared to me the only possible one:
satisfied I was not, but to please him I endeavoured to appear so
-- relieved, I certainly did feel; so I answered him with a contented
smile.  And now, as it was long past one, I prepared to leave him.
"Does not Sophie sleep with Adele in the nursery?"  he asked, as
I lit my candle.
"Yes, sir."
"And there is room enough in Adele's little bed for you.  You must
share it with her to-night, Jane:  it is no wonder that the incident
you have related should make you nervous, and I would rather you
did not sleep alone:  promise me to go to the nursery."
"I shall be very glad to do so, sir."
"And fasten the door securely on the inside.  Wake Sophie when you
go upstairs, under pretence of requesting her to rouse you in good
time to-morrow; for you must be dressed and have finished breakfast
before eight.  And now, no more sombre thoughts:  chase dull care
away, Janet.  Don't you hear to what soft whispers the wind has
fallen?  and there is no more beating of rain against the window-panes:
look here" (he lifted up the curtain) -- "it is a lovely night!"
It was.  Half heaven was pure and stainless:  the clouds, now
trooping before the wind, which had shifted to the west, were filing
off eastward in long, silvered columns.  The moon shone peacefully.
"Well," said Mr. Rochester, gazing inquiringly into my eyes, "how
is my Janet now?"
"The night is serene, sir; and so am I."
"And you will not dream of separation and sorrow to-night; but of
happy love and blissful union."
This prediction was but half fulfilled:  I did not indeed dream of
sorrow, but as little did I dream of joy; for I never slept at all.
With little Adele in my arms, I watched the slumber of childhood
-- so tranquil, so passionless, so innocent -- and waited for the
coming day:  all my life was awake and astir in my frame:  and as
soon as the sun rose I rose too.  I remember Adele clung to me as I
left her:  I remember I kissed her as I loosened her little hands
from my neck; and I cried over her with strange emotion, and quitted
her because I feared my sobs would break her still sound repose.
She seemed the emblem of my past life; and he I was now to array
myself to meet, the dread, but adored, type of my unknown future
day.
CHAPTER XXVI
Sophie came at seven to dress me:  she was very long indeed in
accomplishing her task; so long that Mr. Rochester, grown, I suppose,
impatient of my delay, sent up to ask why I did not come.  She was
just fastening my veil (the plain square of blond after all) to
my hair with a brooch; I hurried from under her hands as soon as
I could.
"Stop!"  she cried in French.  "Look at yourself in the mirror:
you have not taken one peep."
