
So I turned at the door:  I saw a robed and veiled figure, so
unlike my usual self that it seemed almost the image of a stranger.
"Jane!"  called a voice, and I hastened down.  I was received at
the foot of the stairs by Mr. Rochester.
"Lingerer!"  he said, "my brain is on fire with impatience, and
you tarry so long!"
He took me into the dining-room, surveyed me keenly all over,
pronounced me "fair as a lily, and not only the pride of his life,
but the desire of his eyes," and then telling me he would give me
but ten minutes to eat some breakfast, he rang the bell.  One of
his lately hired servants, a footman, answered it.
"Is John getting the carriage ready?"
"Yes, sir."
"Is the luggage brought down?"
"They are bringing it down, sir."
"Go you to the church:  see if Mr. Wood (the clergyman) and the
clerk are there:  return and tell me."
The church, as the reader knows, was but just beyond the gates;
the footman soon returned.
"Mr. Wood is in the vestry, sir, putting on his surplice."
"And the carriage?"
"The horses are harnessing."
"We shall not want it to go to church; but it must be ready the
moment we return:  all the boxes and luggage arranged and strapped
on, and the coachman in his seat."
"Yes, sir."
"Jane, are you ready?"
I rose.  There were no groomsmen, no bridesmaids, no relatives to
wait for or marshal:  none but Mr. Rochester and I. Mrs. Fairfax
stood in the hall as we passed.  I would fain have spoken to her,
but my hand was held by a grasp of iron:  I was hurried along by a
stride I could hardly follow; and to look at Mr. Rochester's face
was to feel that not a second of delay would be tolerated for any
purpose.  I wonder what other bridegroom ever looked as he did --
so bent up to a purpose, so grimly resolute:  or who, under such
steadfast brows, ever revealed such flaming and flashing eyes.
I know not whether the day was fair or foul; in descending the drive,
I gazed neither on sky nor earth:  my heart was with my eyes; and
both seemed migrated into Mr. Rochester's frame.  I wanted to see
the invisible thing on which, as we went along, he appeared to
fasten a glance fierce and fell.  I wanted to feel the thoughts
whose force he seemed breasting and resisting.
At the churchyard wicket he stopped:  he discovered I was quite out
of breath.  "Am I cruel in my love?"  he said.  "Delay an instant:
lean on me, Jane."
And now I can recall the picture of the grey old house of God
rising calm before me, of a rook wheeling round the steeple, of a
ruddy morning sky beyond.  I remember something, too, of the green
grave-mounds; and I have not forgotten, either, two figures of
strangers straying amongst the low hillocks and reading the mementoes
graven on the few mossy head-stones.  I noticed them, because,
as they saw us, they passed round to the back of the church; and
I doubted not they were going to enter by the side-aisle door and
witness the ceremony.  By Mr. Rochester they were not observed; he
was earnestly looking at my face from which the blood had, I daresay,
momentarily fled:  for I felt my forehead dewy, and my cheeks and
lips cold.  When I rallied, which I soon did, he walked gently with
me up the path to the porch.
We entered the quiet and humble temple; the priest waited in his
white surplice at the lowly altar, the clerk beside him.  All was
still:  two shadows only moved in a remote corner.  My conjecture
had been correct:  the strangers had slipped in before us, and they
now stood by the vault of the Rochesters, their backs towards us,
viewing through the rails the old time-stained marble tomb, where
a kneeling angel guarded the remains of Damer de Rochester, slain
at Marston Moor in the time of the civil wars, and of Elizabeth,
his wife.
Our place was taken at the communion rails.  Hearing a cautious
step behind me, I glanced over my shoulder:  one of the strangers
-- a gentleman, evidently -- was advancing up the chancel.  The
service began.  The explanation of the intent of matrimony was gone
through; and then the clergyman came a step further forward, and,
bending slightly towards Mr. Rochester, went on.
"I require and charge you both (as ye will answer at the dreadful
day of judgment, when the secrets of all hearts shall be disclosed),
that if either of you know any impediment why ye may not lawfully
be joined together in matrimony, ye do now confess it; for be ye
well assured that so many as are coupled together otherwise than
God's Word doth allow, are not joined together by God, neither is
their matrimony lawful."
He paused, as the custom is.  When is the pause after that sentence
ever broken by reply?  Not, perhaps, once in a hundred years.  And
the clergyman, who had not lifted his eyes from his book, and had
held his breath but for a moment, was proceeding:  his hand was
already stretched towards Mr. Rochester, as his lips unclosed to
ask, "Wilt thou have this woman for thy wedded wife?" --
when a distinct and near voice said -
"The marriage cannot go on:  I declare the existence of an impediment."
The clergyman looked up at the speaker and stood mute; the clerk
did the same; Mr. Rochester moved slightly, as if an earthquake had
rolled under his feet:  taking a firmer footing, and not turning
his head or eyes, he said, "Proceed."
Profound silence fell when he had uttered that word, with
deep but low intonation.  Presently Mr. Wood said -
"I cannot proceed without some investigation into what has been
asserted, and evidence of its truth or falsehood."
"The ceremony is quite broken off," subjoined the voice behind
us.  "I am in a condition to prove my allegation:  an insuperable
impediment to this marriage exists."
Mr. Rochester heard, but heeded not:  he stood stubborn and rigid,
making no movement but to possess himself of my hand.  What a hot
and strong grasp he had!  and how like quarried marble was his
pale, firm, massive front at this moment!  How his eye shone, still
watchful, and yet wild beneath!
Mr. Wood seemed at a loss.  "What is the nature of the impediment?"
he asked.  "Perhaps it may be got over -- explained away?"
"Hardly," was the answer.  "I have called it insuperable, and I
speak advisedly."
The speaker came forward and leaned on the rails.  He continued,
uttering each word distinctly, calmly, steadily, but not loudly -
"It simply consists in the existence of a previous marriage.  Mr.
Rochester has a wife now living."
My nerves vibrated to those low-spoken words as they had never
vibrated to thunder -- my blood felt their subtle violence as it
had never felt frost or fire; but I was collected, and in no danger
of swooning.  I looked at Mr. Rochester:  I made him look at me.
His whole face was colourless rock:  his eye was both spark and
flint.  He disavowed nothing:  he seemed as if he would defy all
things.  Without speaking, without smiling, without seeming to
recognise in me a human being, he only twined my waist with his
arm and riveted me to his side.
"Who are you?"  he asked of the intruder.
"My name is Briggs, a solicitor of -- Street, London."
"And you would thrust on me a wife?"
"I would remind you of your lady's existence, sir, which the law
recognises, if you do not."
"Favour me with an account of her -- with her name, her parentage,
her place of abode."
"Certainly."  Mr. Briggs calmly took a paper from his pocket, and
read out in a sort of official, nasal voice:-
"'I affirm and can prove that on the 20th of October A.D. -- (a
date of fifteen years back), Edward Fairfax Rochester, of Thornfield
Hall, in the county of -, and of Ferndean Manor, in -shire, England,
was married to my sister, Bertha Antoinetta Mason, daughter of
Jonas Mason, merchant, and of Antoinetta his wife, a Creole, at --
church, Spanish Town, Jamaica.  The record of the marriage will be
found in the register of that church -- a copy of it is now in my
possession.  Signed, Richard Mason.'"
"That -- if a genuine document -- may prove I have been married,
but it does not prove that the woman mentioned therein as my wife
is still living."
"She was living three months ago," returned the lawyer.
"How do you know?"
"I have a witness to the fact, whose testimony even you, sir, will
scarcely controvert."
"Produce him -- or go to hell."
"I will produce him first -- he is on the spot.  Mr. Mason, have
the goodness to step forward."
Mr. Rochester, on hearing the name, set his teeth; he experienced,
too, a sort of strong convulsive quiver; near to him as I was, I
felt the spasmodic movement of fury or despair run through his frame.
The second stranger, who had hitherto lingered in the background,
now drew near; a pale face looked over the solicitor's shoulder
-- yes, it was Mason himself.  Mr. Rochester turned and glared at
him.  His eye, as I have often said, was a black eye:  it had now
a tawny, nay, a bloody light in its gloom; and his face flushed --
olive cheek and hueless forehead received a glow as from spreading,
ascending heart-fire:  and he stirred, lifted his strong arm -- he
could have struck Mason, dashed him on the church-floor, shocked
by ruthless blow the breath from his body -- but Mason shrank away,
and cried faintly, "Good God!"  Contempt fell cool on Mr. Rochester
-- his passion died as if a blight had shrivelled it up:  he only
asked -- "What have YOU to say?"
An inaudible reply escaped Mason's white lips.
"The devil is in it if you cannot answer distinctly.  I again
demand, what have you to say?"
