
"You come out at last," he said.  "Well, I have been waiting for
you long, and listening:  yet not one movement have I heard, nor
one sob:  five minutes more of that death-like hush, and I should
have forced the lock like a burglar.  So you shun me? -- you shut
yourself up and grieve alone!  I would rather you had come and
upbraided me with vehemence.  You are passionate.  I expected a
scene of some kind.  I was prepared for the hot rain of tears; only
I wanted them to be shed on my breast:  now a senseless floor has
received them, or your drenched handkerchief.  But I err:  you have
not wept at all!  I see a white cheek and a faded eye, but no trace
of tears.  I suppose, then, your heart has been weeping blood?"
"Well, Jane!  not a word of reproach?  Nothing bitter -- nothing
poignant?  Nothing to cut a feeling or sting a passion?  You sit
quietly where I have placed you, and regard me with a weary, passive
look."
"Jane, I never meant to wound you thus.  If the man who had but
one little ewe lamb that was dear to him as a daughter, that ate of
his bread and drank of his cup, and lay in his bosom, had by some
mistake slaughtered it at the shambles, he would not have rued his
bloody blunder more than I now rue mine.  Will you ever forgive
me?"
Reader, I forgave him at the moment and on the spot.  There was
such deep remorse in his eye, such true pity in his tone, such
manly energy in his manner; and besides, there was such unchanged
love in his whole look and mien -- I forgave him all:  yet not in
words, not outwardly; only at my heart's core.
"You know I am a scoundrel, Jane?"  ere long he inquired wistfully
-- wondering, I suppose, at my continued silence and tameness, the
result rather of weakness than of will.
"Yes, sir."
"Then tell me so roundly and sharply -- don't spare me."
"I cannot:  I am tired and sick.  I want some water."  He heaved
a sort of shuddering sigh, and taking me in his arms, carried me
downstairs.  At first I did not know to what room he had borne me;
all was cloudy to my glazed sight:  presently I felt the reviving
warmth of a fire; for, summer as it was, I had become icy cold in
my chamber.  He put wine to my lips; I tasted it and revived; then
I ate something he offered me, and was soon myself.  I was in the
library -- sitting in his chair -- he was quite near.  "If I could
go out of life now, without too sharp a pang, it would be well
for me," I thought; "then I should not have to make the effort of
cracking my heart-strings in rending them from among Mr. Rochester's.
I must leave him, it appears.  I do not want to leave him -- I
cannot leave him."
"How are you now, Jane?"
"Much better, sir; I shall be well soon."
"Taste the wine again, Jane."
I obeyed him; then he put the glass on the table, stood before me,
and looked at me attentively.  Suddenly he turned away, with an
inarticulate exclamation, full of passionate emotion of some kind;
he walked fast through the room and came back; he stooped towards
me as if to kiss me; but I remembered caresses were now forbidden.
I turned my face away and put his aside.
"What! -- How is this?"  he exclaimed hastily.  "Oh, I know!  you
won't kiss the husband of Bertha Mason?  You consider my arms filled
and my embraces appropriated?"
"At any rate, there is neither room nor claim for me, sir."
"Why, Jane?  I will spare you the trouble of much talking; I will
answer for you -- Because I have a wife already, you would reply.
-- I guess rightly?"
"Yes."
"If you think so, you must have a strange opinion of me; you must
regard me as a plotting profligate -- a base and low rake who
has been simulating disinterested love in order to draw you into
a snare deliberately laid, and strip you of honour and rob you of
self- respect.  What do you say to that?  I see you can say nothing
in the first place, you are faint still, and have enough to do
to draw your breath; in the second place, you cannot yet accustom
yourself to accuse and revile me, and besides, the flood-gates of
tears are opened, and they would rush out if you spoke much; and
you have no desire to expostulate, to upbraid, to make a scene:
you are thinking how TO ACT -- TALKING you consider is of no use.
I know you -- I am on my guard."
"Sir, I do not wish to act against you," I said; and my unsteady
voice warned me to curtail my sentence.
"Not in your sense of the word, but in mine you are scheming to
destroy me.  You have as good as said that I am a married man --
as a married man you will shun me, keep out of my way:  just now
you have refused to kiss me.  You intend to make yourself a complete
stranger to me:  to live under this roof only as Adele's governess;
if ever I say a friendly word to you, if ever a friendly feeling
inclines you again to me, you will say, -- 'That man had nearly
made me his mistress:  I must be ice and rock to him;' and ice and
rock you will accordingly become."
I cleared and steadied my voice to reply:  "All is changed about me,
sir; I must change too -- there is no doubt of that; and to avoid
fluctuations of feeling, and continual combats with recollections
and associations, there is only one way -- Adele must have a new
governess, sir."
"Oh, Adele will go to school -- I have settled that already; nor do
I mean to torment you with the hideous associations and recollections
of Thornfield Hall -- this accursed place -- this tent of Achan --
this insolent vault, offering the ghastliness of living death to
the light of the open sky -- this narrow stone hell, with its one
real fiend, worse than a legion of such as we imagine.  Jane, you
shall not stay here, nor will I. I was wrong ever to bring you to
Thornfield Hall, knowing as I did how it was haunted.  I charged
them to conceal from you, before I ever saw you, all knowledge of
the curse of the place; merely because I feared Adele never would
have a governess to stay if she knew with what inmate she was housed,
and my plans would not permit me to remove the maniac elsewhere --
though I possess an old house, Ferndean Manor, even more retired
and hidden than this, where I could have lodged her safely enough,
had not a scruple about the unhealthiness of the situation, in the
heart of a wood, made my conscience recoil from the arrangement.
Probably those damp walls would soon have eased me of her charge:
but to each villain his own vice; and mine is not a tendency to
indirect assassination, even of what I most hate.
"Concealing the mad-woman's neighbourhood from you, however, was
something like covering a child with a cloak and laying it down
near a upas-tree:  that demon's vicinage is poisoned, and always
was.  But I'll shut up Thornfield Hall:  I'll nail up the front
door and board the lower windows:  I'll give Mrs. Poole two hundred
a year to live here with MY WIFE, as you term that fearful hag:
Grace will do much for money, and she shall have her son, the keeper
at Grimsby Retreat, to bear her company and be at hand to give her
aid in the paroxysms, when MY WIFE is prompted by her familiar to
burn people in their beds at night, to stab them, to bite
their flesh from their bones, and so on -- "
"Sir," I interrupted him, "you are inexorable for that unfortunate
lady:  you speak of her with hate -- with vindictive antipathy.
It is cruel -- she cannot help being mad."
"Jane, my little darling (so I will call you, for so you are), you
don't know what you are talking about; you misjudge me again:  it
is not because she is mad I hate her.  If you were mad, do you
think I should hate you?"
"I do indeed, sir."
"Then you are mistaken, and you know nothing about me, and nothing
about the sort of love of which I am capable.  Every atom of your
flesh is as dear to me as my own:  in pain and sickness it would
still be dear.  Your mind is my treasure, and if it were broken, it
would be my treasure still:  if you raved, my arms should confine
you, and not a strait waistcoat -- your grasp, even in fury, would
have a charm for me:  if you flew at me as wildly as that woman
did this morning, I should receive you in an embrace, at least as
fond as it would be restrictive.  I should not shrink from you with
disgust as I did from her:  in your quiet moments you should have
no watcher and no nurse but me; and I could hang over you with
untiring tenderness, though you gave me no smile in return; and
never weary of gazing into your eyes, though they had no longer
a ray of recognition for me. -- But why do I follow that train of
ideas?  I was talking of removing you from Thornfield.  All, you
know, is prepared for prompt departure:  to-morrow you shall go.  I
only ask you to endure one more night under this roof, Jane; and
then, farewell to its miseries and terrors for ever!  I have a
place to repair to, which will be a secure sanctuary from hateful
reminiscences, from unwelcome intrusion -- even from falsehood and
slander."
"And take Adele with you, sir," I interrupted; "she will be a
companion for you."
"What do you mean, Jane?  I told you I would send Adele to school;
and what do I want with a child for a companion, and not my own
child, -- a French dancer's bastard?  Why do you importune me about
her!  I say, why do you assign Adele to me for a companion?"
"You spoke of a retirement, sir; and retirement and solitude are
dull:  too dull for you."
"Solitude!  solitude!"  he reiterated with irritation.  "I see I must
come to an explanation.  I don't know what sphynx-like expression
is forming in your countenance.  You are to share my solitude.  Do
you understand?"
I shook my head:  it required a degree of courage, excited as he
was becoming, even to risk that mute sign of dissent.  He had been
walking fast about the room, and he stopped, as if suddenly rooted
to one spot.  He looked at me long and hard:  I turned my eyes
from him, fixed them on the fire, and tried to assume and maintain
a quiet, collected aspect.
"Now for the hitch in Jane's character," he said at last, speaking
more calmly than from his look I had expected him to speak.  "The
reel of silk has run smoothly enough so far; but I always knew there
would come a knot and a puzzle:  here it is.  Now for vexation,
and exasperation, and endless trouble!  By God!  I long to exert
a fraction of Samson's strength, and break the entanglement like
tow!"
He recommenced his walk, but soon again stopped, and this time just
before me.
"Jane!  will you hear reason?"  (he stooped and approached his
lips to my ear); "because, if you won't, I'll try violence."  His
voice was hoarse; his look that of a man who is just about to
burst an insufferable bond and plunge headlong into wild license.
I saw that in another moment, and with one impetus of frenzy more,
I should be able to do nothing with him.  The present -- the passing
second of time -- was all I had in which to control and restrain
him -- a movement of repulsion, flight, fear would have sealed my
doom, -- and his.  But I was not afraid:  not in the least.  I felt
an inward power; a sense of influence, which supported me.  The
crisis was perilous; but not without its charm:  such as the Indian,
perhaps, feels when he slips over the rapid in his canoe.  I took
hold of his clenched hand, loosened the contorted fingers,
and said to him, soothingly -
"Sit down; I'll talk to you as long as you like, and hear all you
have to say, whether reasonable or unreasonable."
He sat down:  but he did not get leave to speak directly.  I had
been struggling with tears for some time:  I had taken great pains
to repress them, because I knew he would not like to see me weep.
Now, however, I considered it well to let them flow as freely
and as long as they liked.  If the flood annoyed him, so much the
better.  So I gave way and cried heartily.
Soon I heard him earnestly entreating me to be composed.  I said
I could not while he was in such a passion.
"But I am not angry, Jane:  I only love you too well; and you had
steeled your little pale face with such a resolute, frozen look,
I could not endure it.  Hush, now, and wipe your eyes."
His softened voice announced that he was subdued; so I, in my
turn, became calm.  Now he made an effort to rest his head on my
shoulder, but I would not permit it.  Then he would draw me to him:
no.
"Jane!  Jane!"  he said, in such an accent of bitter sadness it
thrilled along every nerve I had; "you don't love me, then?  It
was only my station, and the rank of my wife, that you valued?  Now
that you think me disqualified to become your husband, you recoil
from my touch as if I were some toad or ape."
These words cut me:  yet what could I do or I say?  I ought probably
to have done or said nothing; but I was so tortured by a sense of
remorse at thus hurting his feelings, I could not control the wish
to drop balm where I had wounded.
"I DO love you," I said, "more than ever:  but I must not show or
indulge the feeling:  and this is the last time I must express it."
"The last time, Jane!  What!  do you think you can live with me,
and see me daily, and yet, if you still love me, be always cold
and distant?"
"No, sir; that I am certain I could not; and therefore I see there
is but one way:  but you will be furious if I mention it."
"Oh, mention it!  If I storm, you have the art of weeping."
"Mr. Rochester, I must leave you."
"For how long, Jane?  For a few minutes, while you smooth your
hair -- which is somewhat dishevelled; and bathe your face -- which
looks feverish?"
"I must leave Adele and Thornfield.  I must part with you for my
whole life:  I must begin a new existence among strange faces and
strange scenes."
"Of course:  I told you you should.  I pass over the madness about
parting from me.  You mean you must become a part of me.  As to
the new existence, it is all right:  you shall yet be my wife:  I
am not married.  You shall be Mrs. Rochester -- both virtually and
nominally.  I shall keep only to you so long as you and I live.  You
shall go to a place I have in the south of France:  a whitewashed
villa on the shores of the Mediterranean.  There you shall live
a happy, and guarded, and most innocent life.  Never fear that I
wish to lure you into error -- to make you my mistress.  Why did
you shake your head?  Jane, you must be reasonable, or in truth I
shall again become frantic."
His voice and hand quivered:  his large nostrils dilated; his eye
blazed:  still I dared to speak.
