
"Sir, your wife is living:  that is a fact acknowledged this morning
by yourself.  If I lived with you as you desire, I should then be
your mistress:  to say otherwise is sophistical -- is false."
"Jane, I am not a gentle-tempered man -- you forget that:  I am
not long-enduring; I am not cool and dispassionate.  Out of pity to
me and yourself, put your finger on my pulse, feel how it throbs,
and -- beware!"
He bared his wrist, and offered it to me:  the blood was forsaking
his cheek and lips, they were growing livid; I was distressed on all
hands.  To agitate him thus deeply, by a resistance he so abhorred,
was cruel:  to yield was out of the question.  I did what human
beings do instinctively when they are driven to utter extremity --
looked for aid to one higher than man:  the words "God help me!"
burst involuntarily from my lips.
"I am a fool!"  cried Mr. Rochester suddenly.  "I keep telling
her I am not married, and do not explain to her why.  I forget she
knows nothing of the character of that woman, or of the circumstances
attending my infernal union with her.  Oh, I am certain Jane will
agree with me in opinion, when she knows all that I know!  Just put
your hand in mine, Janet -- that I may have the evidence of touch
as well as sight, to prove you are near me -- and I will in a few
words show you the real state of the case.  Can you listen to me?"
"Yes, sir; for hours if you will."
"I ask only minutes.  Jane, did you ever hear or know that I was
not the eldest son of my house:  that I had once a brother older
than I?"
"I remember Mrs. Fairfax told me so once."
"And did you ever hear that my father was an avaricious, grasping
man?"
"I have understood something to that effect."
"Well, Jane, being so, it was his resolution to keep the property
together; he could not bear the idea of dividing his estate
and leaving me a fair portion:  all, he resolved, should go to my
brother, Rowland.  Yet as little could he endure that a son of his
should be a poor man.  I must be provided for by a wealthy marriage.
He sought me a partner betimes.  Mr. Mason, a West India planter and
merchant, was his old acquaintance.  He was certain his possessions
were real and vast:  he made inquiries.  Mr. Mason, he found, had a
son and daughter; and he learned from him that he could and would
give the latter a fortune of thirty thousand pounds:  that sufficed.
When I left college, I was sent out to Jamaica, to espouse a bride
already courted for me.  My father said nothing about her money;
but he told me Miss Mason was the boast of Spanish Town for her
beauty:  and this was no lie.  I found her a fine woman, in the
style of Blanche Ingram:  tall, dark, and majestic.  Her family
wished to secure me because I was of a good race; and so did she.
They showed her to me in parties, splendidly dressed.  I seldom
saw her alone, and had very little private conversation with her.
She flattered me, and lavishly displayed for my pleasure her charms
and accomplishments.  All the men in her circle seemed to admire her
and envy me.  I was dazzled, stimulated:  my senses were excited;
and being ignorant, raw, and inexperienced, I thought I loved
her.  There is no folly so besotted that the idiotic rivalries of
society, the prurience, the rashness, the blindness of youth, will
not hurry a man to its commission.  Her relatives encouraged me;
competitors piqued me; she allured me:  a marriage was achieved
almost before I knew where I was.  Oh, I have no respect for myself
when I think of that act! -- an agony of inward contempt masters
me.  I never loved, I never esteemed, I did not even know her.  I
was not sure of the existence of one virtue in her nature:  I had
marked neither modesty, nor benevolence, nor candour, nor refinement
in her mind or manners -- and, I married her:- gross, grovelling,
mole-eyed blockhead that I was!  With less sin I might have -- But
let me remember to whom I am speaking."
"My bride's mother I had never seen:  I understood she was dead.
The honeymoon over, I learned my mistake; she was only mad, and
shut up in a lunatic asylum.  There was a younger brother, too --
a complete dumb idiot.  The elder one, whom you have seen (and whom
I cannot hate, whilst I abhor all his kindred, because he has some
grains of affection in his feeble mind, shown in the continued
interest he takes in his wretched sister, and also in a dog-like
attachment he once bore me), will probably be in the same state
one day.  My father and my brother Rowland knew all this; but they
thought only of the thirty thousand pounds, and joined in the plot
against me."
"These were vile discoveries; but except for the treachery
of concealment, I should have made them no subject of reproach to
my wife, even when I found her nature wholly alien to mine, her
tastes obnoxious to me, her cast of mind common, low, narrow, and
singularly incapable of being led to anything higher, expanded
to anything larger -- when I found that I could not pass a single
evening, nor even a single hour of the day with her in comfort;
that kindly conversation could not be sustained between us, because
whatever topic I started, immediately received from her a turn at
once coarse and trite, perverse and imbecile -- when I perceived
that I should never have a quiet or settled household, because
no servant would bear the continued outbreaks of her violent and
unreasonable temper, or the vexations of her absurd, contradictory,
exacting orders -- even then I restrained myself:  I eschewed
upbraiding, I curtailed remonstrance; I tried to devour my repentance
and disgust in secret; I repressed the deep antipathy I felt.
"Jane, I will not trouble you with abominable details:  some strong
words shall express what I have to say.  I lived with that woman
upstairs four years, and before that time she had tried me indeed:
her character ripened and developed with frightful rapidity; her
vices sprang up fast and rank:  they were so strong, only cruelty
could check them, and I would not use cruelty.  What a pigmy
intellect she had, and what giant propensities!  How fearful were
the curses those propensities entailed on me!  Bertha Mason, the
true daughter of an infamous mother, dragged me through all the
hideous and degrading agonies which must attend a man bound to a
wife at once intemperate and unchaste.
"My brother in the interval was dead, and at the end of the four
years my father died too.  I was rich enough now -- yet poor to
hideous indigence:  a nature the most gross, impure, depraved I ever
saw, was associated with mine, and called by the law and by society
a part of me.  And I could not rid myself of it by any legal
proceedings:  for the doctors now discovered that MY WIFE was mad
-- her excesses had prematurely developed the germs of insanity.
Jane, you don't like my narrative; you look almost sick -- shall
I defer the rest to another day?"
"No, sir, finish it now; I pity you -- I do earnestly pity you."
"Pity, Jane, from some people is a noxious and insulting sort of
tribute, which one is justified in hurling back in the teeth of
those who offer it; but that is the sort of pity native to callous,
selfish hearts; it is a hybrid, egotistical pain at hearing of
woes, crossed with ignorant contempt for those who have endured
them.  But that is not your pity, Jane; it is not the feeling of
which your whole face is full at this moment -- with which your eyes
are now almost overflowing -- with which your heart is heaving --
with which your hand is trembling in mine.  Your pity, my darling,
is the suffering mother of love:  its anguish is the very natal
pang of the divine passion.  I accept it, Jane; let the daughter
have free advent -- my arms wait to receive her."
"Now, sir, proceed; what did you do when you found she was mad?"
"Jane, I approached the verge of despair; a remnant of self-respect
was all that intervened between me and the gulf.  In the eyes
of the world, I was doubtless covered with grimy dishonour; but I
resolved to be clean in my own sight -- and to the last I repudiated
the contamination of her crimes, and wrenched myself from connection
with her mental defects.  Still, society associated my name and
person with hers; I yet saw her and heard her daily:  something
of her breath (faugh!) mixed with the air I breathed; and besides,
I remembered I had once been her husband -- that recollection was
then, and is now, inexpressibly odious to me; moreover, I knew that
while she lived I could never be the husband of another and better
wife; and, though five years my senior (her family and her father
had lied to me even in the particular of her age), she was likely
to live as long as I, being as robust in frame as she was infirm
in mind.  Thus, at the age of twenty-six, I was hopeless.
"One night I had been awakened by her yells -- (since the medical
men had pronounced her mad, she had, of course, been shut up)
-- it was a fiery West Indian night; one of the description that
frequently precede the hurricanes of those climates.  Being unable
to sleep in bed, I got up and opened the window.  The air was like
sulphur-steams -- I could find no refreshment anywhere.  Mosquitoes
came buzzing in and hummed sullenly round the room; the sea, which
I could hear from thence, rumbled dull like an earthquake -- black
clouds were casting up over it; the moon was setting in the waves,
broad and red, like a hot cannon-ball -- she threw her last bloody
glance over a world quivering with the ferment of tempest.  I was
physically influenced by the atmosphere and scene, and my ears were
filled with the curses the maniac still shrieked out; wherein she
momentarily mingled my name with such a tone of demon-hate, with
such language! -- no professed harlot ever had a fouler vocabulary
than she:  though two rooms off, I heard every word -- the thin
partitions of the West India house opposing but slight obstruction
to her wolfish cries.
"'This life,' said I at last, 'is hell:  this is the air -- those
are the sounds of the bottomless pit!  I have a right to deliver
myself from it if I can.  The sufferings of this mortal state will
leave me with the heavy flesh that now cumbers my soul.  Of the
fanatic's burning eternity I have no fear:  there is not a future
state worse than this present one -- let me break away, and go home
to God!'
"I said this whilst I knelt down at, and unlocked a trunk which
contained a brace of loaded pistols:  I mean to shoot myself.  I
only entertained the intention for a moment; for, not being insane,
the crisis of exquisite and unalloyed despair, which had originated
the wish and design of self-destruction, was past in a second.
"A wind fresh from Europe blew over the ocean and rushed through
the open casement:  the storm broke, streamed, thundered, blazed,
and the air grew pure.  I then framed and fixed a resolution.
While I walked under the dripping orange-trees of my wet garden,
and amongst its drenched pomegranates and pine-apples, and while
the refulgent dawn of the tropics kindled round me -- I reasoned
thus, Jane -- and now listen; for it was true Wisdom that consoled
me in that hour, and showed me the right path to follow.
"The sweet wind from Europe was still whispering in the refreshed
leaves, and the Atlantic was thundering in glorious liberty; my
heart, dried up and scorched for a long time, swelled to the tone,
and filled with living blood -- my being longed for renewal -- my
soul thirsted for a pure draught.  I saw hope revive -- and felt
regeneration possible.  From a flowery arch at the bottom of my
garden I gazed over the sea -- bluer than the sky:  the old world
was beyond; clear prospects opened thus:-
"'Go,' said Hope, 'and live again in Europe:  there it is not known
what a sullied name you bear, nor what a filthy burden is bound
to you.  You may take the maniac with you to England; confine her
with due attendance and precautions at Thornfield:  then travel
yourself to what clime you will, and form what new tie you like.
That woman, who has so abused your long-suffering, so sullied your
name, so outraged your honour, so blighted your youth, is not your
wife, nor are you her husband.  See that she is cared for as her
condition demands, and you have done all that God and humanity
require of you.  Let her identity, her connection with yourself,
be buried in oblivion:  you are bound to impart them to no living
being.  Place her in safety and comfort:  shelter her degradation
with secrecy, and leave her.'
"I acted precisely on this suggestion.  My father and brother had
not made my marriage known to their acquaintance; because, in the
very first letter I wrote to apprise them of the union -- having
already begun to experience extreme disgust of its consequences,
and, from the family character and constitution, seeing a hideous
future opening to me -- I added an urgent charge to keep it
secret:  and very soon the infamous conduct of the wife my father
had selected for me was such as to make him blush to own her as his
daughter-in-law.  Far from desiring to publish the connection, he
became as anxious to conceal it as myself.
"To England, then, I conveyed her; a fearful voyage I had with
such a monster in the vessel.  Glad was I when I at last got her
to Thornfield, and saw her safely lodged in that third-storey room,
of whose secret inner cabinet she has now for ten years made a wild
beast's den -- a goblin's cell.  I had some trouble in finding an
attendant for her, as it was necessary to select one on whose fidelity
dependence could be placed; for her ravings would inevitably betray
my secret:  besides, she had lucid intervals of days -- sometimes
weeks -- which she filled up with abuse of me.  At last I hired
Grace Poole from the Grimbsy Retreat.  She and the surgeon, Carter
(who dressed Mason's wounds that night he was stabbed and worried),
are the only two I have ever admitted to my confidence.  Mrs. Fairfax
may indeed have suspected something, but she could have gained no
precise knowledge as to facts.  Grace has, on the whole, proved a
good keeper; though, owing partly to a fault of her own, of which
it appears nothing can cure her, and which is incident to her
harassing profession, her vigilance has been more than once lulled
and baffled.  The lunatic is both cunning and malignant; she has
never failed to take advantage of her guardian's temporary lapses;
once to secrete the knife with which she stabbed her brother, and
twice to possess herself of the key of her cell, and issue therefrom
in the night-time.  On the first of these occasions, she perpetrated
the attempt to burn me in my bed; on the second, she paid that
ghastly visit to you.  I thank Providence, who watched over you,
that she then spent her fury on your wedding apparel, which perhaps
brought back vague reminiscences of her own bridal days:  but on what
might have happened, I cannot endure to reflect.  When I think of
the thing which flew at my throat this morning, hanging its black
and scarlet visage over the nest of my dove, my blood curdles."
"And what, sir," I asked, while he paused, "did you do when you
had settled her here?  Where did you go?"
"What did I do, Jane?  I transformed myself into a will-o'-the-wisp.
Where did I go?  I pursued wanderings as wild as those of the
March-spirit.  I sought the Continent, and went devious through
all its lands.  My fixed desire was to seek and find a good and
intelligent woman, whom I could love:  a contrast to the
fury I left at Thornfield -- "
"But you could not marry, sir."
"I had determined and was convinced that I could and ought.  It
was not my original intention to deceive, as I have deceived you.
I meant to tell my tale plainly, and make my proposals openly:  and
it appeared to me so absolutely rational that I should be considered
free to love and be loved, I never doubted some woman might be found
willing and able to understand my case and accept me, in spite of
the curse with which I was burdened."
"Well, sir?"
"When you are inquisitive, Jane, you always make me smile.  You
open your eyes like an eager bird, and make every now and then a
restless movement, as if answers in speech did not flow fast enough
for you, and you wanted to read the tablet of one's heart.  But
before I go on, tell me what you mean by your 'Well, sir?'  It is
a small phrase very frequent with you; and which many a time has
drawn me on and on through interminable talk:  I don't very well
know why."
"I mean, -- What next?  How did you proceed?  What came of such an
event?"
"Precisely!  and what do you wish to know now?"
"Whether you found any one you liked:  whether you asked her to
marry you; and what she said."
"I can tell you whether I found any one I liked, and whether I
asked her to marry me:  but what she said is yet to be recorded in
the book of Fate.  For ten long years I roved about, living first
in one capital, then another:  sometimes in St. Petersburg; oftener
in Paris; occasionally in Rome, Naples, and Florence.  Provided
with plenty of money and the passport of an old name, I could choose
my own society:  no circles were closed against me.  I sought my
ideal of a woman amongst English ladies, French countesses, Italian
signoras, and German grafinnen.  I could not find her.  Sometimes,
for a fleeting moment, I thought I caught a glance, heard a tone,
beheld a form, which announced the realisation of my dream:  but
I was presently undeserved.  You are not to suppose that I desired
perfection, either of mind or person.  I longed only for what
suited me -- for the antipodes of the Creole:  and I longed vainly.
Amongst them all I found not one whom, had I been ever so free,
I -- warned as I was of the risks, the horrors, the loathings of
incongruous unions -- would have asked to marry me.  Disappointment
made me reckless.  I tried dissipation -- never debauchery:  that
I hated, and hate.  That was my Indian Messalina's attribute:
rooted disgust at it and her restrained me much, even in pleasure.
Any enjoyment that bordered on riot seemed to approach me to her
and her vices, and I eschewed it.
"Yet I could not live alone; so I tried the companionship
of mistresses.  The first I chose was Celine Varens -- another of
those steps which make a man spurn himself when he recalls them.  You
already know what she was, and how my liaison with her terminated.
She had two successors:  an Italian, Giacinta, and a German, Clara;
both considered singularly handsome.  What was their beauty to me
in a few weeks?  Giacinta was unprincipled and violent:  I tired
of her in three months.  Clara was honest and quiet; but heavy,
mindless, and unimpressible:  not one whit to my taste.  I was
glad to give her a sufficient sum to set her up in a good line of
business, and so get decently rid of her.  But, Jane, I see by your
face you are not forming a very favourable opinion of me just now.
You think me an unfeeling, loose-principled rake:  don't you?"
"I don't like you so well as I have done sometimes, indeed, sir.
Did it not seem to you in the least wrong to live in that way,
first with one mistress and then another?  You talk of it as a mere
matter of course."
"It was with me; and I did not like it.  It was a grovelling
fashion of existence:  I should never like to return to it.  Hiring
a mistress is the next worse thing to buying a slave:  both are
often by nature, and always by position, inferior:  and to live
familiarly with inferiors is degrading.  I now hate the recollection
of the time I passed with Celine, Giacinta, and Clara."
I felt the truth of these words; and I drew from them the certain
inference, that if I were so far to forget myself and all the teaching
that had ever been instilled into me, as -- under any pretext --
with any justification -- through any temptation -- to become the
successor of these poor girls, he would one day regard me with the
same feeling which now in his mind desecrated their memory.  I did
not give utterance to this conviction:  it was enough to feel it.
I impressed it on my heart, that it might remain there to serve me
as aid in the time of trial.
"Now, Jane, why don't you say 'Well, sir?'  I have not done.  You
are looking grave.  You disapprove of me still, I see.  But let
me come to the point.  Last January, rid of all mistresses -- in a
harsh, bitter frame of mind, the result of a useless, roving, lonely
life -- corroded with disappointment, sourly disposed against all
men, and especially against all womankind (for I began to regard
the notion of an intellectual, faithful, loving woman as a mere
dream), recalled by business, I came back to England.
"On a frosty winter afternoon, I rode in sight of Thornfield Hall.
Abhorred spot!  I expected no peace -- no pleasure there.  On a
stile in Hay Lane I saw a quiet little figure sitting by itself.
I passed it as negligently as I did the pollard willow opposite
to it:  I had no presentiment of what it would be to me; no inward
warning that the arbitress of my life -- my genius for good or evil
-- waited there in humble guise.  I did not know it, even when, on
the occasion of Mesrour's accident, it came up and gravely offered
me help.  Childish and slender creature!  It seemed as if a linnet
had hopped to my foot and proposed to bear me on its tiny wing.  I
was surly; but the thing would not go:  it stood by me with strange
perseverance, and looked and spoke with a sort of authority.  I
must be aided, and by that hand:  and aided I was.
"When once I had pressed the frail shoulder, something new -- a
fresh sap and sense -- stole into my frame.  It was well I had learnt
that this elf must return to me -- that it belonged to my house
down below -- or I could not have felt it pass away from under my
hand, and seen it vanish behind the dim hedge, without singular
regret.  I heard you come home that night, Jane, though probably
you were not aware that I thought of you or watched for you.  The
next day I observed you -- myself unseen -- for half-an-hour,
while you played with Adele in the gallery.  It was a snowy day,
I recollect, and you could not go out of doors.  I was in my room;
the door was ajar:  I could both listen and watch.  Adele claimed
your outward attention for a while; yet I fancied your thoughts
were elsewhere:  but you were very patient with her, my little
Jane; you talked to her and amused her a long time.  When at last
she left you, you lapsed at once into deep reverie:  you betook
yourself slowly to pace the gallery.  Now and then, in passing a
casement, you glanced out at the thick-falling snow; you listened
to the sobbing wind, and again you paced gently on and dreamed.
I think those day visions were not dark:  there was a pleasurable
illumination in your eye occasionally, a soft excitement in your
aspect, which told of no bitter, bilious, hypochondriac brooding:
your look revealed rather the sweet musings of youth when its spirit
follows on willing wings the flight of Hope up and on to an ideal
heaven.  The voice of Mrs. Fairfax, speaking to a servant in the
hall, wakened you:  and how curiously you smiled to and at yourself,
Janet!  There was much sense in your smile:  it was very shrewd,
and seemed to make light of your own abstraction.  It seemed to say
-- 'My fine visions are all very well, but I must not forget they
are absolutely unreal.  I have a rosy sky and a green flowery Eden
in my brain; but without, I am perfectly aware, lies at my feet
a rough tract to travel, and around me gather black tempests to
encounter.'  You ran downstairs and demanded of Mrs. Fairfax some
occupation:  the weekly house accounts to make up, or something of
that sort, I think it was.  I was vexed with you for getting out
of my sight.
"Impatiently I waited for evening, when I might summon you
to my presence.  An unusual -- to me -- a perfectly new character
I suspected was yours:  I desired to search it deeper and know it
better.  You entered the room with a look and air at once shy and
independent:  you were quaintly dressed -- much as you are now.
I made you talk:  ere long I found you full of strange contrasts.
Your garb and manner were restricted by rule; your air was often
diffident, and altogether that of one refined by nature, but
absolutely unused to society, and a good deal afraid of making
herself disadvantageously conspicuous by some solecism or blunder;
yet when addressed, you lifted a keen, a daring, and a glowing
eye to your interlocutor's face:  there was penetration and power
in each glance you gave; when plied by close questions, you found
ready and round answers.  Very soon you seemed to get used to me:
I believe you felt the existence of sympathy between you and your
grim and cross master, Jane; for it was astonishing to see how
quickly a certain pleasant ease tranquillised your manner:  snarl
as I would, you showed no surprise, fear, annoyance, or displeasure
at my moroseness; you watched me, and now and then smiled at me
with a simple yet sagacious grace I cannot describe.  I was at once
content and stimulated with what I saw:  I liked what I had seen,
and wished to see more.  Yet, for a long time, I treated you
distantly, and sought your company rarely.  I was an intellectual
epicure, and wished to prolong the gratification of making this
novel and piquant acquaintance:  besides, I was for a while troubled
with a haunting fear that if I handled the flower freely its bloom
would fade -- the sweet charm of freshness would leave it.  I did
not then know that it was no transitory blossom, but rather the
radiant resemblance of one, cut in an indestructible gem.  Moreover,
I wished to see whether you would seek me if I shunned you -- but
you did not; you kept in the schoolroom as still as your own desk
and easel; if by chance I met you, you passed me as soon, and with
as little token of recognition, as was consistent with respect.
Your habitual expression in those days, Jane, was a thoughtful
look; not despondent, for you were not sickly; but not buoyant,
for you had little hope, and no actual pleasure.  I wondered what
you thought of me, or if you ever thought of me, and resolved to
find this out.
"I resumed my notice of you.  There was something glad in your
glance, and genial in your manner, when you conversed:  I saw you
had a social heart; it was the silent schoolroom -- it was the
tedium of your life -- that made you mournful.  I permitted myself
the delight of being kind to you; kindness stirred emotion soon:
your face became soft in expression, your tones gentle; I liked my
name pronounced by your lips in a grateful happy accent.  I used to
enjoy a chance meeting with you, Jane, at this time:  there was a
curious hesitation in your manner:  you glanced at me with a slight
trouble -- a hovering doubt:  you did not know what my caprice might
be -- whether I was going to play the master and be stern, or the
friend and be benignant.  I was now too fond of you often to simulate
the first whim; and, when I stretched my hand out cordially, such
bloom and light and bliss rose to your young, wistful features,
I had much ado often to avoid straining you then and there to my
heart."
"Don't talk any more of those days, sir," I interrupted, furtively
dashing away some tears from my eyes; his language was torture
to me; for I knew what I must do -- and do soon -- and all these
reminiscences, and these revelations of his feelings only made my
work more difficult.
"No, Jane," he returned:  "what necessity is there to dwell on
the Past, when the Present is so much surer -- the Future so much
brighter?"
I shuddered to hear the infatuated assertion.
"You see now how the case stands -- do you not?"  he continued.
"After a youth and manhood passed half in unutterable misery and
half in dreary solitude, I have for the first time found what I can
truly love -- I have found you.  You are my sympathy -- my better
self -- my good angel.  I am bound to you with a strong attachment.
I think you good, gifted, lovely:  a fervent, a solemn passion
is conceived in my heart; it leans to you, draws you to my centre
and spring of life, wraps my existence about you, and, kindling in
pure, powerful flame, fuses you and me in one.
"It was because I felt and knew this, that I resolved to marry
you.  To tell me that I had already a wife is empty mockery:  you
know now that I had but a hideous demon.  I was wrong to attempt
to deceive you; but I feared a stubbornness that exists in your
character.  I feared early instilled prejudice:  I wanted to have
you safe before hazarding confidences.  This was cowardly:  I should
have appealed to your nobleness and magnanimity at first, as I do
now -- opened to you plainly my life of agony -- described to you
my hunger and thirst after a higher and worthier existence -- shown
to you, not my RESOLUTION (that word is weak), but my resistless
BENT to love faithfully and well, where I am faithfully and well
loved in return.  Then I should have asked you to accept my pledge
of fidelity and to give me yours.  Jane -- give it me now."
