
A pause.
"Why are you silent, Jane?"
I was experiencing an ordeal:  a hand of fiery iron grasped my
vitals.  Terrible moment:  full of struggle, blackness, burning!
Not a human being that ever lived could wish to be loved better
than I was loved; and him who thus loved me I absolutely worshipped:
and I must renounce love and idol.  One drear word comprised my
intolerable duty -- "Depart!"
"Jane, you understand what I want of you?  Just this promise -- 'I
will be yours, Mr. Rochester.'"
"Mr. Rochester, I will NOT be yours."
Another long silence.
"Jane!"  recommenced he, with a gentleness that broke me down with
grief, and turned me stone-cold with ominous terror -- for this
still voice was the pant of a lion rising -- "Jane, do you mean to
go one way in the world, and to let me go another?"
"I do."
"Jane" (bending towards and embracing me), "do you mean it now?"
"I do."
"And now?"  softly kissing my forehead and cheek.
"I do," extricating myself from restraint rapidly and completely.
"Oh, Jane, this is bitter!  This -- this is wicked.  It would not
be wicked to love me."
"It would to obey you."
A wild look raised his brows -- crossed his features:  he rose;
but he forebore yet.  I laid my hand on the back of a chair for
support:  I shook, I feared -- but I resolved.
"One instant, Jane.  Give one glance to my horrible life when you
are gone.  All happiness will be torn away with you.  What then is
left?  For a wife I have but the maniac upstairs:  as well might
you refer me to some corpse in yonder churchyard.  What shall I
do, Jane?  Where turn for a companion and for some hope?"
"Do as I do:  trust in God and yourself.  Believe in heaven.  Hope
to meet again there."
"Then you will not yield?"
"No."
"Then you condemn me to live wretched and to die accursed?"  His
voice rose.
"I advise you to live sinless, and I wish you to die tranquil."
"Then you snatch love and innocence from me?  You fling me back on
lust for a passion -- vice for an occupation?"
"Mr. Rochester, I no more assign this fate to you than I grasp at
it for myself.  We were born to strive and endure -- you as well
as I: do so.  You will forget me before I forget you."
"You make me a liar by such language:  you sully my honour.  I
declared I could not change:  you tell me to my face I shall change
soon.  And what a distortion in your judgment, what a perversity
in your ideas, is proved by your conduct!  Is it better to drive
a fellow-creature to despair than to transgress a mere human law,
no man being injured by the breach?  for you have neither relatives
nor acquaintances whom you need fear to offend by living with me?"
This was true:  and while he spoke my very conscience and reason
turned traitors against me, and charged me with crime in resisting
him.  They spoke almost as loud as Feeling:  and that clamoured
wildly.  "Oh, comply!"  it said.  "Think of his misery; think of his
danger -- look at his state when left alone; remember his headlong
nature; consider the recklessness following on despair -- soothe
him; save him; love him; tell him you love him and will be his.
Who in the world cares for YOU? or who will be injured by what you
do?"
Still indomitable was the reply -- "I care for myself.  The more
solitary, the more friendless, the more unsustained I am, the more
I will respect myself.  I will keep the law given by God; sanctioned
by man.  I will hold to the principles received by me when I was
sane, and not mad -- as I am now.  Laws and principles are not for
the times when there is no temptation:  they are for such moments
as this, when body and soul rise in mutiny against their rigour;
stringent are they; inviolate they shall be.  If at my individual
convenience I might break them, what would be their worth?  They
have a worth -- so I have always believed; and if I cannot believe
it now, it is because I am insane -- quite insane:  with my veins
running fire, and my heart beating faster than I can count its
throbs.  Preconceived opinions, foregone determinations, are all
I have at this hour to stand by:  there I plant my foot."
I did.  Mr. Rochester, reading my countenance, saw I had done so.
His fury was wrought to the highest:  he must yield to it for a
moment, whatever followed; he crossed the floor and seized my arm
and grasped my waist.  He seemed to devour me with his flaming
glance:  physically, I felt, at the moment, powerless as stubble
exposed to the draught and glow of a furnace:  mentally, I still
possessed my soul, and with it the certainty of ultimate safety.
The soul, fortunately, has an interpreter -- often an unconscious,
but still a truthful interpreter -- in the eye.  My eye rose to
his; and while I looked in his fierce face I gave an involuntary
sigh; his gripe was painful, and my over-taxed strength almost
exhausted.
"Never," said he, as he ground his teeth, "never was anything at once
so frail and so indomitable.  A mere reed she feels in my hand!"
(And he shook me with the force of his hold.) "I could bend her
with my finger and thumb:  and what good would it do if I bent,
if I uptore, if I crushed her?  Consider that eye:  consider the
resolute, wild, free thing looking out of it, defying me, with
more than courage -- with a stern triumph.  Whatever I do with its
cage, I cannot get at it -- the savage, beautiful creature!  If
I tear, if I rend the slight prison, my outrage will only let the
captive loose.  Conqueror I might be of the house; but the inmate
would escape to heaven before I could call myself possessor of its
clay dwelling-place.  And it is you, spirit -- with will and energy,
and virtue and purity -- that I want:  not alone your brittle frame.
Of yourself you could come with soft flight and nestle against my
heart, if you would:  seized against your will, you will elude the
grasp like an essence -- you will vanish ere I inhale your fragrance.
Oh!  come, Jane, come!"
As he said this, he released me from his clutch, and only looked
at me.  The look was far worse to resist than the frantic strain:
only an idiot, however, would have succumbed now.  I had dared and
baffled his fury; I must elude his sorrow:  I retired to the door.
"You are going, Jane?"
"I am going, sir."
"You are leaving me?"
"Yes."
"You will not come?  You will not be my comforter, my rescuer?  My
deep love, my wild woe, my frantic prayer, are all nothing to you?"
What unutterable pathos was in his voice!  How hard it was to
reiterate firmly, "I am going."
"Jane!"
"Mr. Rochester!"
"Withdraw, then, -- I consent; but remember, you leave me here in
anguish.  Go up to your own room; think over all I have said, and,
Jane, cast a glance on my sufferings -- think of me."
He turned away; he threw himself on his face on the sofa.  "Oh,
Jane!  my hope -- my love -- my life!"  broke in anguish from his
lips.  Then came a deep, strong sob.
I had already gained the door; but, reader, I walked back -- walked
back as determinedly as I had retreated.  I knelt down by him;
I turned his face from the cushion to me; I kissed his cheek; I
smoothed his hair with my hand.
"God bless you, my dear master!"  I said.  "God keep you from harm
and wrong -- direct you, solace you -- reward you well for your
past kindness to me."
"Little Jane's love would have been my best reward," he answered;
"without it, my heart is broken.  But Jane will give me her love:
yes -- nobly, generously."
Up the blood rushed to his face; forth flashed the fire from
his eyes; erect he sprang; he held his arms out; but I evaded the
embrace, and at once quitted the room.
"Farewell!"  was the cry of my heart as I left him.  Despair added,
"Farewell for ever!"
That night I never thought to sleep; but a slumber fell on me as
soon as I lay down in bed.  I was transported in thought to the
scenes of childhood:  I dreamt I lay in the red-room at Gateshead;
that the night was dark, and my mind impressed with strange fears.
The light that long ago had struck me into syncope, recalled in
this vision, seemed glidingly to mount the wall, and tremblingly to
pause in the centre of the obscured ceiling.  I lifted up my head
to look:  the roof resolved to clouds, high and dim; the gleam
was such as the moon imparts to vapours she is about to sever.  I
watched her come -- watched with the strangest anticipation; as
though some word of doom were to be written on her disk.  She broke
forth as never moon yet burst from cloud:  a hand first penetrated
the sable folds and waved them away; then, not a moon, but a white
human form shone in the azure, inclining a glorious brow earthward.
It gazed and gazed on me.  It spoke to my spirit:  immeasurably
distant was the tone, yet so near, it whispered in my heart -
"My daughter, flee temptation."
"Mother, I will."
So I answered after I had waked from the trance-like dream.  It was
yet night, but July nights are short:  soon after midnight, dawn
comes.  "It cannot be too early to commence the task I have to
fulfil," thought I. I rose:  I was dressed; for I had taken off
nothing but my shoes.  I knew where to find in my drawers some linen,
a locket, a ring.  In seeking these articles, I encountered the
beads of a pearl necklace Mr. Rochester had forced me to accept a
few days ago.  I left that; it was not mine:  it was the visionary
bride's who had melted in air.  The other articles I made up in a
parcel; my purse, containing twenty shillings (it was all I had),
I put in my pocket:  I tied on my straw bonnet, pinned my shawl,
took the parcel and my slippers, which I would not put on yet, and
stole from my room.
"Farewell, kind Mrs. Fairfax!"  I whispered, as I glided past her
door.  "Farewell, my darling Adele!"  I said, as I glanced towards
the nursery.  No thought could be admitted of entering to embrace
her.  I had to deceive a fine ear:  for aught I knew it might now
be listening.
I would have got past Mr. Rochester's chamber without a pause; but
my heart momentarily stopping its beat at that threshold, my foot
was forced to stop also.  No sleep was there:  the inmate was
walking restlessly from wall to wall; and again and again he sighed
while I listened.  There was a heaven -- a temporary heaven --
in this room for me, if I chose:  I had but to go in and to say -
