
"Mr. Rochester, I will love you and live with you through life till
death," and a fount of rapture would spring to my lips.  I thought
of this.
That kind master, who could not sleep now, was waiting with
impatience for day.  He would send for me in the morning; I should
be gone.  He would have me sought for:  vainly.  He would feel
himself forsaken; his love rejected:  he would suffer; perhaps
grow desperate.  I thought of this too.  My hand moved towards the
lock:  I caught it back, and glided on.
Drearily I wound my way downstairs:  I knew what I had to do, and
I did it mechanically.  I sought the key of the side-door in the
kitchen; I sought, too, a phial of oil and a feather; I oiled the
key and the lock.  I got some water, I got some bread:  for perhaps
I should have to walk far; and my strength, sorely shaken of late,
must not break down.  All this I did without one sound.  I opened
the door, passed out, shut it softly.  Dim dawn glimmered in the
yard.  The great gates were closed and locked; but a wicket in
one of them was only latched.  Through that I departed:  it, too,
I shut; and now I was out of Thornfield.
A mile off, beyond the fields, lay a road which stretched in the
contrary direction to Millcote; a road I had never travelled, but
often noticed, and wondered where it led:  thither I bent my steps.
No reflection was to be allowed now:  not one glance was to be
cast back; not even one forward.  Not one thought was to be given
either to the past or the future.  The first was a page so heavenly
sweet -- so deadly sad -- that to read one line of it would dissolve
my courage and break down my energy.  The last was an awful blank:
something like the world when the deluge was gone by.
I skirted fields, and hedges, and lanes till after sunrise.  I
believe it was a lovely summer morning:  I know my shoes, which I
had put on when I left the house, were soon wet with dew.  But I
looked neither to rising sun, nor smiling sky, nor wakening nature.
He who is taken out to pass through a fair scene to the scaffold,
thinks not of the flowers that smile on his road, but of the block
and axe-edge; of the disseverment of bone and vein; of the grave
gaping at the end:  and I thought of drear flight and homeless
wandering -- and oh!  with agony I thought of what I left.  I could
not help it.  I thought of him now -- in his room -- watching the
sunrise; hoping I should soon come to say I would stay with him
and be his.  I longed to be his; I panted to return:  it was not
too late; I could yet spare him the bitter pang of bereavement.  As
yet my flight, I was sure, was undiscovered.  I could go back and
be his comforter -- his pride; his redeemer from misery, perhaps
from ruin.  Oh, that fear of his self-abandonment -- far worse than
my abandonment -- how it goaded me!  It was a barbed arrow-head
in my breast; it tore me when I tried to extract it; it sickened
me when remembrance thrust it farther in.  Birds began singing in
brake and copse:  birds were faithful to their mates; birds were
emblems of love.  What was I? In the midst of my pain of heart and
frantic effort of principle, I abhorred myself.  I had no solace
from self- approbation:  none even from self-respect.  I had injured
-- wounded -- left my master.  I was hateful in my own eyes.  Still
I could not turn, nor retrace one step.  God must have led me on.
As to my own will or conscience, impassioned grief had trampled one
and stifled the other.  I was weeping wildly as I walked along my
solitary way:  fast, fast I went like one delirious.  A weakness,
beginning inwardly, extending to the limbs, seized me, and I fell:
I lay on the ground some minutes, pressing my face to the wet turf.
I had some fear -- or hope -- that here I should die:  but I was
soon up; crawling forwards on my hands and knees, and then again
raised to my feet -- as eager and as determined as ever to reach
the road.
When I got there, I was forced to sit to rest me under the hedge;
and while I sat, I heard wheels, and saw a coach come on.  I stood
up and lifted my hand; it stopped.  I asked where it was going:
the driver named a place a long way off, and where I was sure Mr.
Rochester had no connections.  I asked for what sum he would take
me there; he said thirty shillings; I answered I had but twenty;
well, he would try to make it do.  He further gave me leave to get
into the inside, as the vehicle was empty:  I entered, was shut
in, and it rolled on its way.
Gentle reader, may you never feel what I then felt!  May your eyes
never shed such stormy, scalding, heart-wrung tears as poured from
mine.  May you never appeal to Heaven in prayers so hopeless and
so agonised as in that hour left my lips; for never may you, like
me, dread to be the instrument of evil to what you wholly love.
CHAPTER XXVIII
Two days are passed.  It is a summer evening; the coachman has set
me down at a place called Whitcross; he could take me no farther
for the sum I had given, and I was not possessed of another shilling
in the world.  The coach is a mile off by this time; I am alone.
At this moment I discover that I forgot to take my parcel out of
the pocket of the coach, where I had placed it for safety; there
it remains, there it must remain; and now, I am absolutely destitute.
Whitcross is no town, nor even a hamlet; it is but a stone pillar
set up where four roads meet:  whitewashed, I suppose, to be more
obvious at a distance and in darkness.  Four arms spring from its
summit:  the nearest town to which these point is, according to the
inscription, distant ten miles; the farthest, above twenty.  From
the well-known names of these towns I learn in what county I have
lighted; a north-midland shire, dusk with moorland, ridged with
mountain:  this I see.  There are great moors behind and on each
hand of me; there are waves of mountains far beyond that deep
valley at my feet.  The population here must be thin, and I see
no passengers on these roads:  they stretch out east, west, north,
and south -- white, broad, lonely; they are all cut in the moor,
and the heather grows deep and wild to their very verge.  Yet a
chance traveller might pass by; and I wish no eye to see me now:
strangers would wonder what I am doing, lingering here at the
sign-post, evidently objectless and lost.  I might be questioned:
I could give no answer but what would sound incredible and excite
suspicion.  Not a tie holds me to human society at this moment --
not a charm or hope calls me where my fellow-creatures are -- none
that saw me would have a kind thought or a good wish for me.  I
have no relative but the universal mother, Nature:  I will seek
her breast and ask repose.
I struck straight into the heath; I held on to a hollow I saw
deeply furrowing the brown moorside; I waded knee-deep in its dark
growth; I turned with its turnings, and finding a moss-blackened
granite crag in a hidden angle, I sat down under it.  High banks of
moor were about me; the crag protected my head:  the sky was over
that.
Some time passed before I felt tranquil even here:  I had a vague
dread that wild cattle might be near, or that some sportsman or
poacher might discover me.  If a gust of wind swept the waste, I
looked up, fearing it was the rush of a bull; if a plover whistled,
I imagined it a man.  Finding my apprehensions unfounded, however,
and calmed by the deep silence that reigned as evening declined
at nightfall, I took confidence.  As yet I had not thought; I had
only listened, watched, dreaded; now I regained the faculty of
reflection.
What was I to do?  Where to go?  Oh, intolerable questions, when
I could do nothing and go nowhere! -- when a long way must yet be
measured by my weary, trembling limbs before I could reach human
habitation -- when cold charity must be entreated before I could get
a lodging:  reluctant sympathy importuned, almost certain repulse
incurred, before my tale could be listened to, or one of my wants
relieved!
I touched the heath, it was dry, and yet warm with the beat of the
summer day.  I looked at the sky; it was pure:  a kindly star twinkled
just above the chasm ridge.  The dew fell, but with propitious
softness; no breeze whispered.  Nature seemed to me benign and
good; I thought she loved me, outcast as I was; and I, who from
man could anticipate only mistrust, rejection, insult, clung to her
with filial fondness.  To-night, at least, I would be her guest,
as I was her child:  my mother would lodge me without money and
without price.  I had one morsel of bread yet:  the remnant of a
roll I had bought in a town we passed through at noon with a stray
penny -- my last coin.  I saw ripe bilberries gleaming here and
there, like jet beads in the heath:  I gathered a handful and ate
them with the bread.  My hunger, sharp before, was, if not satisfied,
appeased by this hermit's meal.  I said my evening prayers at its
conclusion, and then chose my couch.
Beside the crag the heath was very deep:  when I lay down my feet
were buried in it; rising high on each side, it left only a narrow
space for the night-air to invade.  I folded my shawl double, and
spread it over me for a coverlet; a low, mossy swell was my pillow.
Thus lodged, I was not, at least -- at the commencement of the
night, cold.
My rest might have been blissful enough, only a sad heart broke it.
It plained of its gaping wounds, its inward bleeding, its riven
chords.  It trembled for Mr. Rochester and his doom; it bemoaned
him with bitter pity; it demanded him with ceaseless longing; and,
impotent as a bird with both wings broken, it still quivered its
shattered pinions in vain attempts to seek him.
Worn out with this torture of thought, I rose to my knees.  Night
was come, and her planets were risen:  a safe, still night:  too
serene for the companionship of fear.  We know that God is everywhere;
but certainly we feel His presence most when His works are on the
grandest scale spread before us; and it is in the unclouded night-sky,
where His worlds wheel their silent course, that we read clearest
His infinitude, His omnipotence, His omnipresence.  I had risen to
my knees to pray for Mr. Rochester.  Looking up, I, with tear-dimmed
eyes, saw the mighty Milky-way.  Remembering what it was -- what
countless systems there swept space like a soft trace of light --
I felt the might and strength of God.  Sure was I of His efficiency
to save what He had made:  convinced I grew that neither earth should
perish, nor one of the souls it treasured.  I turned my prayer to
thanksgiving:  the Source of Life was also the Saviour of spirits.
Mr. Rochester was safe; he was God's, and by God would he be
guarded.  I again nestled to the breast of the hill; and ere long
in sleep forgot sorrow.
But next day, Want came to me pale and bare.  Long after the little
birds had left their nests; long after bees had come in the sweet
prime of day to gather the heath honey before the dew was dried --
when the long morning shadows were curtailed, and the sun filled
earth and sky -- I got up, and I looked round me.
What a still, hot, perfect day!  What a golden desert this spreading
moor!  Everywhere sunshine.  I wished I could live in it and on
it.  I saw a lizard run over the crag; I saw a bee busy among the
sweet bilberries.  I would fain at the moment have become bee or
lizard, that I might have found fitting nutriment, permanent shelter
here.  But I was a human being, and had a human being's wants:  I
must not linger where there was nothing to supply them.  I rose; I
looked back at the bed I had left.  Hopeless of the future, I wished
but this -- that my Maker had that night thought good to require
my soul of me while I slept; and that this weary frame, absolved
by death from further conflict with fate, had now but to decay
quietly, and mingle in peace with the soil of this wilderness.  Life,
however, was yet in my possession, with all its requirements, and
pains, and responsibilities.  The burden must be carried; the want
provided for; the suffering endured; the responsibility fulfilled.
I set out.
Whitcross regained, I followed a road which led from the sun, now
fervent and high.  By no other circumstance had I will to decide
my choice.  I walked a long time, and when I thought I had nearly
done enough, and might conscientiously yield to the fatigue that
almost overpowered me -- might relax this forced action, and, sitting
down on a stone I saw near, submit resistlessly to the apathy that
clogged heart and limb -- I heard a bell chime -- a church bell.
I turned in the direction of the sound, and there, amongst the
romantic hills, whose changes and aspect I had ceased to note an
hour ago, I saw a hamlet and a spire.  All the valley at my right
hand was full of pasture-fields, and cornfields, and wood; and a
glittering stream ran zig-zag through the varied shades of green,
the mellowing grain, the sombre woodland, the clear and sunny lea.
Recalled by the rumbling of wheels to the road before me, I saw
a heavily-laden waggon labouring up the hill, and not far beyond
were two cows and their drover.  Human life and human labour were
near.  I must struggle on:  strive to live and bend to toil like
the rest.
About two o'clock p.m.  I entered the village.  At the bottom of
its one street there was a little shop with some cakes of bread
in the window.  I coveted a cake of bread.  With that refreshment
I could perhaps regain a degree of energy:  without it, it would
be difficult to proceed.  The wish to have some strength and some
vigour returned to me as soon as I was amongst my fellow-beings.
I felt it would be degrading to faint with hunger on the causeway
of a hamlet.  Had I nothing about me I could offer in exchange for
one of these rolls?  I considered.  I had a small silk handkerchief
tied round my throat; I had my gloves.  I could hardly tell how
men and women in extremities of destitution proceeded.  I did not
know whether either of these articles would be accepted:  probably
they would not; but I must try.
I entered the shop:  a woman was there.  Seeing a respectably-dressed
person, a lady as she supposed, she came forward with civility.
How could she serve me?  I was seized with shame:  my tongue would
not utter the request I had prepared.  I dared not offer her the
half-worn gloves, the creased handkerchief:  besides, I felt it
would be absurd.  I only begged permission to sit down a moment,
as I was tired.  Disappointed in the expectation of a customer, she
coolly acceded to my request.  She pointed to a seat; I sank into
it.  I felt sorely urged to weep; but conscious how unseasonable
such a manifestation would be, I restrained it.  Soon I asked her
"if there were any dressmaker or plain-workwoman in the village?"
"Yes; two or three.  Quite as many as there was employment for."
I reflected.  I was driven to the point now.  I was brought face
to face with Necessity.  I stood in the position of one without a
resource, without a friend, without a coin.  I must do something.
What?  I must apply somewhere.  Where?
"Did she know of any place in the neighbourhood where a servant
was wanted?"
"Nay; she couldn't say."
"What was the chief trade in this place?  What did most of the
people do?"
"Some were farm labourers; a good deal worked at Mr. Oliver's
needle-factory, and at the foundry."
"Did Mr. Oliver employ women?"
"Nay; it was men's work."
"And what do the women do?"
"I knawn't," was the answer.  "Some does one thing, and some another.
Poor folk mun get on as they can."
She seemed to be tired of my questions:  and, indeed, what claim
had I to importune her?  A neighbour or two came in; my chair was
evidently wanted.  I took leave.
I passed up the street, looking as I went at all the houses to the
right hand and to the left; but I could discover no pretext, nor
see an inducement to enter any.  I rambled round the hamlet, going
sometimes to a little distance and returning again, for an hour or
more.  Much exhausted, and suffering greatly now for want of food,
I turned aside into a lane and sat down under the hedge.  Ere many
minutes had elapsed, I was again on my feet, however, and again
searching something -- a resource, or at least an informant.  A
pretty little house stood at the top of the lane, with a garden
before it, exquisitely neat and brilliantly blooming.  I stopped
at it.  What business had I to approach the white door or touch the
glittering knocker?  In what way could it possibly be the interest
of the inhabitants of that dwelling to serve me?  Yet I drew near
and knocked.  A mild-looking, cleanly-attired young woman opened
the door.  In such a voice as might be expected from a hopeless
heart and fainting frame -- a voice wretchedly low and faltering
-- I asked if a servant was wanted here?
"No," said she; "we do not keep a servant."
"Can you tell me where I could get employment of any kind?"  I
continued.  "I am a stranger, without acquaintance in this place.
I want some work:  no matter what."
But it was not her business to think for me, or to seek a place
for me:  besides, in her eyes, how doubtful must have appeared my
character, position, tale.  She shook her head, she "was sorry she
could give me no information," and the white door closed, quite
gently and civilly:  but it shut me out.  If she had held it open
a little longer, I believe I should have begged a piece of bread;
for I was now brought low.
I could not bear to return to the sordid village, where, besides,
no prospect of aid was visible.  I should have longed rather to
deviate to a wood I saw not far off, which appeared in its thick
shade to offer inviting shelter; but I was so sick, so weak, so
gnawed with nature's cravings, instinct kept me roaming round abodes
where there was a chance of food.  Solitude would be no solitude
-- rest no rest -- while the vulture, hunger, thus sank beak and
talons in my side.
I drew near houses; I left them, and came back again, and again I
wandered away:  always repelled by the consciousness of having no
claim to ask -- no right to expect interest in my isolated lot.
Meantime, the afternoon advanced, while I thus wandered about like
a lost and starving dog.  In crossing a field, I saw the church
spire before me:  I hastened towards it.  Near the churchyard, and
in the middle of a garden, stood a well-built though small house,
which I had no doubt was the parsonage.  I remembered that strangers
who arrive at a place where they have no friends, and who want
employment, sometimes apply to the clergyman for introduction
and aid.  It is the clergyman's function to help -- at least with
advice -- those who wished to help themselves.  I seemed to have
something like a right to seek counsel here.  Renewing then my
courage, and gathering my feeble remains of strength, I pushed on.
I reached the house, and knocked at the kitchen-door.  An old woman
opened:  I asked was this the parsonage?
"Yes."
"Was the clergyman in?"
"No."
"Would he be in soon?"
"No, he was gone from home."
"To a distance?"
"Not so far -- happen three mile.  He had been called away by the
sudden death of his father:  he was at Marsh End now, and would
very likely stay there a fortnight longer."
