
"Was there any lady of the house?"
"Nay, there was naught but her, and she was housekeeper;" and of
her, reader, I could not bear to ask the relief for want of which
I was sinking; I could not yet beg; and again I crawled away.
Once more I took off my handkerchief -- once more I thought of the
cakes of bread in the little shop.  Oh, for but a crust!  for but
one mouthful to allay the pang of famine!  Instinctively I turned
my face again to the village; I found the shop again, and I went
in; and though others were there besides the woman I ventured the
request -- "Would she give me a roll for this handkerchief?"
She looked at me with evident suspicion:  "Nay, she never sold
stuff i' that way."
Almost desperate, I asked for half a cake; she again refused.  "How
could she tell where I had got the handkerchief?"  she said.
"Would she take my gloves?"
"No!  what could she do with them?"
Reader, it is not pleasant to dwell on these details.  Some say
there is enjoyment in looking back to painful experience past;
but at this day I can scarcely bear to review the times to which I
allude:  the moral degradation, blent with the physical suffering,
form too distressing a recollection ever to be willingly dwelt on.
I blamed none of those who repulsed me.  I felt it was what was to
be expected, and what could not be helped:  an ordinary beggar is
frequently an object of suspicion; a well-dressed beggar inevitably
so.  To be sure, what I begged was employment; but whose business
was it to provide me with employment?  Not, certainly, that of
persons who saw me then for the first time, and who knew nothing
about my character.  And as to the woman who would not take my
handkerchief in exchange for her bread, why, she was right, if the
offer appeared to her sinister or the exchange unprofitable.  Let
me condense now.  I am sick of the subject.
A little before dark I passed a farm-house, at the open door
of which the farmer was sitting, eating his supper of bread
and cheese.  I stopped and said -
"Will you give me a piece of bread?  for I am very hungry."  He cast
on me a glance of surprise; but without answering, he cut a thick
slice from his loaf, and gave it to me.  I imagine he did not think
I was a beggar, but only an eccentric sort of lady, who had taken
a fancy to his brown loaf.  As soon as I was out of sight of his
house, I sat down and ate it.
I could not hope to get a lodging under a roof, and sought it in
the wood I have before alluded to.  But my night was wretched, my
rest broken:  the ground was damp, the air cold:  besides, intruders
passed near me more than once, and I had again and again to change
my quarters; no sense of safety or tranquillity befriended me.
Towards morning it rained; the whole of the following day was
wet.  Do not ask me, reader, to give a minute account of that day;
as before, I sought work; as before, I was repulsed; as before, I
starved; but once did food pass my lips.  At the door of a cottage
I saw a little girl about to throw a mess of cold porridge into a
pig trough.  "Will you give me that?"  I asked.
She stared at me.  "Mother!"  she exclaimed, "there is a woman
wants me to give her these porridge."
"Well lass," replied a voice within, "give it her if she's a beggar.
T' pig doesn't want it."
The girl emptied the stiffened mould into my hand, and I devoured
it ravenously.
As the wet twilight deepened, I stopped in a solitary bridle-path,
which I had been pursuing an hour or more.
"My strength is quite failing me," I said in a soliloquy.  "I feel
I cannot go much farther.  Shall I be an outcast again this night?
While the rain descends so, must I lay my head on the cold, drenched
ground?  I fear I cannot do otherwise:  for who will receive me?  But
it will be very dreadful, with this feeling of hunger, faintness,
chill, and this sense of desolation -- this total prostration of
hope.  In all likelihood, though, I should die before morning.  And
why cannot I reconcile myself to the prospect of death?  Why do I
struggle to retain a valueless life?  Because I know, or believe,
Mr. Rochester is living:  and then, to die of want and cold is
a fate to which nature cannot submit passively.  Oh, Providence!
sustain me a little longer!  Aid! -- direct me!"
My glazed eye wandered over the dim and misty landscape.  I saw
I had strayed far from the village:  it was quite out of sight.
The very cultivation surrounding it had disappeared.  I had, by
cross-ways and by-paths, once more drawn near the tract of moorland;
and now, only a few fields, almost as wild and unproductive as the
heath from which they were scarcely reclaimed, lay between me and
the dusky hill.
"Well, I would rather die yonder than in a street or on a frequented
road," I reflected.  "And far better that crows and ravens -- if
any ravens there be in these regions -- should pick my flesh from
my bones, than that they should be prisoned in a workhouse coffin
and moulder in a pauper's grave."
To the hill, then, I turned.  I reached it.  It remained now only
to find a hollow where I could lie down, and feel at least hidden,
if not secure.  But all the surface of the waste looked level.
It showed no variation but of tint:  green, where rush and moss
overgrew the marshes; black, where the dry soil bore only heath.
Dark as it was getting, I could still see these changes, though
but as mere alternations of light and shade; for colour had faded
with the daylight.
My eye still roved over the sullen swell and along the moor-edge,
vanishing amidst the wildest scenery, when at one dim point, far
in among the marshes and the ridges, a light sprang up.  "That is
an ignis fatuus," was my first thought; and I expected it would
soon vanish.  It burnt on, however, quite steadily, neither receding
nor advancing.  "Is it, then, a bonfire just kindled?"  I questioned.
I watched to see whether it would spread:  but no; as it did not
diminish, so it did not enlarge.  "It may be a candle in a house,"
I then conjectured; "but if so, I can never reach it.  It is much
too far away:  and were it within a yard of me, what would it avail?
I should but knock at the door to have it shut in my face."
And I sank down where I stood, and hid my face against the ground.
I lay still a while:  the night-wind swept over the hill and over
me, and died moaning in the distance; the rain fell fast, wetting
me afresh to the skin.  Could I but have stiffened to the still
frost -- the friendly numbness of death -- it might have pelted
on; I should not have felt it; but my yet living flesh shuddered
at its chilling influence.  I rose ere long.
The light was yet there, shining dim but constant through the rain.
I tried to walk again:  I dragged my exhausted limbs slowly towards
it.  It led me aslant over the hill, through a wide bog, which
would have been impassable in winter, and was splashy and shaking
even now, in the height of summer.  Here I fell twice; but as often
I rose and rallied my faculties.  This light was my forlorn hope:
I must gain it.
Having crossed the marsh, I saw a trace of white over the moor.
I approached it; it was a road or a track:  it led straight up to
the light, which now beamed from a sort of knoll, amidst a clump
of trees -- firs, apparently, from what I could distinguish of the
character of their forms and foliage through the gloom.  My star
vanished as I drew near:  some obstacle had intervened between
me and it.  I put out my hand to feel the dark mass before me:  I
discriminated the rough stones of a low wall -- above it, something
like palisades, and within, a high and prickly hedge.  I groped
on.  Again a whitish object gleamed before me:  it was a gate --
a wicket; it moved on its hinges as I touched it.  On each side
stood a sable bush-holly or yew.
Entering the gate and passing the shrubs, the silhouette of a house
rose to view, black, low, and rather long; but the guiding light
shone nowhere.  All was obscurity.  Were the inmates retired to
rest?  I feared it must be so.  In seeking the door, I turned an
angle:  there shot out the friendly gleam again, from the lozenged
panes of a very small latticed window, within a foot of the ground,
made still smaller by the growth of ivy or some other creeping
plant, whose leaves clustered thick over the portion of the house
wall in which it was set.  The aperture was so screened and narrow,
that curtain or shutter had been deemed unnecessary; and when I
stooped down and put aside the spray of foliage shooting over it,
I could see all within.  I could see clearly a room with a sanded
floor, clean scoured; a dresser of walnut, with pewter plates
ranged in rows, reflecting the redness and radiance of a glowing
peat-fire.  I could see a clock, a white deal table, some chairs.
The candle, whose ray had been my beacon, burnt on the table; and
by its light an elderly woman, somewhat rough-looking, but scrupulously
clean, like all about her, was knitting a stocking.
I noticed these objects cursorily only -- in them there was nothing
extraordinary.  A group of more interest appeared near the hearth,
sitting still amidst the rosy peace and warmth suffusing it.  Two
young, graceful women -- ladies in every point -- sat, one in a low
rocking-chair, the other on a lower stool; both wore deep mourning
of crape and bombazeen, which sombre garb singularly set off very
fair necks and faces:  a large old pointer dog rested its massive
head on the knee of one girl -- in the lap of the other was cushioned
a black cat.
A strange place was this humble kitchen for such occupants!  Who
were they?  They could not be the daughters of the elderly person
at the table; for she looked like a rustic, and they were all
delicacy and cultivation.  I had nowhere seen such faces as theirs:
and yet, as I gazed on them, I seemed intimate with every lineament.
I cannot call them handsome -- they were too pale and grave for
the word:  as they each bent over a book, they looked thoughtful
almost to severity.  A stand between them supported a second candle
and two great volumes, to which they frequently referred, comparing
them, seemingly, with the smaller books they held in their hands,
like people consulting a dictionary to aid them in the task of
translation.  This scene was as silent as if all the figures had
been shadows and the firelit apartment a picture:  so hushed was
it, I could hear the cinders fall from the grate, the clock tick
in its obscure corner; and I even fancied I could distinguish the
click-click of the woman's knitting-needles.  When, therefore, a
voice broke the strange stillness at last, it was audible enough
to me.
"Listen, Diana," said one of the absorbed students; "Franz and
old Daniel are together in the night-time, and Franz is telling a
dream from which he has awakened in terror -- listen!"  And in a
low voice she read something, of which not one word was intelligible
to me; for it was in an unknown tongue -- neither French nor Latin.
Whether it were Greek or German I could not tell.
"That is strong," she said, when she had finished:  "I relish it."
The other girl, who had lifted her head to listen to her sister,
repeated, while she gazed at the fire, a line of what had been
read.  At a later day, I knew the language and the book; therefore,
I will here quote the line:  though, when I first heard it, it was
only like a stroke on sounding brass to me -- conveying no meaning:-
"'Da trat hervor Einer, anzusehen wie die Sternen Nacht.'  Good!
good!"  she exclaimed, while her dark and deep eye sparkled.  "There
you have a dim and mighty archangel fitly set before you!  The
line is worth a hundred pages of fustian.  'Ich wage die Gedanken
in der Schale meines Zornes und die Werke mit dem Gewichte meines
Grimms.'  I like it!"
Both were again silent.
"Is there ony country where they talk i' that way?"  asked the old
woman, looking up from her knitting.
"Yes, Hannah -- a far larger country than England, where they talk
in no other way."
"Well, for sure case, I knawn't how they can understand t' one
t'other:  and if either o' ye went there, ye could tell what they
said, I guess?"
"We could probably tell something of what they said, but not all --
for we are not as clever as you think us, Hannah.  We don't speak
German, and we cannot read it without a dictionary to help us."
"And what good does it do you?"
"We mean to teach it some time -- or at least the elements, as they
say; and then we shall get more money than we do now."
"Varry like:  but give ower studying; ye've done enough for to-night."
"I think we have:  at least I'm tired.  Mary, are you?"
"Mortally:  after all, it's tough work fagging away at a language
with no master but a lexicon."
"It is, especially such a language as this crabbed but glorious
Deutsch.  I wonder when St. John will come home."
"Surely he will not be long now:  it is just ten (looking at a
little gold watch she drew from her girdle).  It rains fast, Hannah:
will you have the goodness to look at the fire in the parlour?"
The woman rose:  she opened a door, through which I dimly saw
a passage:  soon I heard her stir a fire in an inner room; she
presently came back.
"Ah, childer!"  said she, "it fair troubles me to go into yond'
room now:  it looks so lonesome wi' the chair empty and set back
in a corner."
She wiped her eyes with her apron:  the two girls, grave before,
looked sad now.
"But he is in a better place," continued Hannah:  "we shouldn't
wish him here again.  And then, nobody need to have a quieter death
nor he had."
"You say he never mentioned us?"  inquired one of the ladies.
"He hadn't time, bairn:  he was gone in a minute, was your father.
He had been a bit ailing like the day before, but naught to signify;
and when Mr. St. John asked if he would like either o' ye to be
sent for, he fair laughed at him.  He began again with a bit of a
heaviness in his head the next day -- that is, a fortnight sin' --
and he went to sleep and niver wakened:  he wor a'most stark when
your brother went into t' chamber and fand him.  Ah, childer!
that's t' last o' t' old stock -- for ye and Mr. St. John is like
of different soart to them 'at's gone; for all your mother wor mich
i' your way, and a'most as book-learned.  She wor the pictur' o'
ye, Mary:  Diana is more like your father."
I thought them so similar I could not tell where the old servant
(for such I now concluded her to be) saw the difference.  Both were
fair complexioned and slenderly made; both possessed faces full of
distinction and intelligence.  One, to be sure, had hair a shade
darker than the other, and there was a difference in their style
of wearing it; Mary's pale brown locks were parted and braided
smooth:  Diana's duskier tresses covered her neck with thick curls.
The clock struck ten.
"Ye'll want your supper, I am sure," observed Hannah; "and so will
Mr. St. John when he comes in."
And she proceeded to prepare the meal.  The ladies rose; they
seemed about to withdraw to the parlour.  Till this moment, I had
been so intent on watching them, their appearance and conversation
had excited in me so keen an interest, I had half-forgotten my own
wretched position:  now it recurred to me.  More desolate, more
desperate than ever, it seemed from contrast.  And how impossible
did it appear to touch the inmates of this house with concern on
my behalf; to make them believe in the truth of my wants and woes
-- to induce them to vouchsafe a rest for my wanderings!  As I
groped out the door, and knocked at it hesitatingly, I felt that
last idea to be a mere chimera.  Hannah opened.
