
"What do you want?"  she inquired, in a voice of surprise, as she
surveyed me by the light of the candle she held.
"May I speak to your mistresses?"  I said.
"You had better tell me what you have to say to them.  Where do
you come from?"
"I am a stranger."
"What is your business here at this hour?"
"I want a night's shelter in an out-house or anywhere, and a morsel
of bread to eat."
Distrust, the very feeling I dreaded, appeared in Hannah's face.
"I'll give you a piece of bread," she said, after a pause; "but we
can't take in a vagrant to lodge.  It isn't likely."
"Do let me speak to your mistresses."
"No, not I. What can they do for you?  You should not be roving
about now; it looks very ill."
"But where shall I go if you drive me away?  What shall I do?"
"Oh, I'll warrant you know where to go and what to do.  Mind
you don't do wrong, that's all.  Here is a penny; now go -- "
"A penny cannot feed me, and I have no strength to go farther.
Don't shut the door:- oh, don't, for God's sake!"
"I must; the rain is driving in -- "
"Tell the young ladies.  Let me see them- "
"Indeed, I will not.  You are not what you ought to be, or you
wouldn't make such a noise.  Move off."
"But I must die if I am turned away."
"Not you.  I'm fear'd you have some ill plans agate, that bring you
about folk's houses at this time o' night.  If you've any followers
-- housebreakers or such like -- anywhere near, you may tell them
we are not by ourselves in the house; we have a gentleman, and
dogs, and guns."  Here the honest but inflexible servant clapped
the door to and bolted it within.
This was the climax.  A pang of exquisite suffering -- a throe
of true despair -- rent and heaved my heart.  Worn out, indeed, I
was; not another step could I stir.  I sank on the wet doorstep:  I
groaned -- I wrung my hands -- I wept in utter anguish.  Oh, this
spectre of death!  Oh, this last hour, approaching in such horror!
Alas, this isolation -- this banishment from my kind!  Not only the
anchor of hope, but the footing of fortitude was gone -- at least
for a moment; but the last I soon endeavoured to regain.
"I can but die," I said, "and I believe in God.  Let me try to wait
His will in silence."
These words I not only thought, but uttered; and thrusting back all
my misery into my heart, I made an effort to compel it to remain
there -- dumb and still.
"All men must die," said a voice quite close at hand; "but all
are not condemned to meet a lingering and premature doom, such as
yours would be if you perished here of want."
"Who or what speaks?"  I asked, terrified at the unexpected sound,
and incapable now of deriving from any occurrence a hope of aid.  A
form was near -- what form, the pitch-dark night and my enfeebled
vision prevented me from distinguishing.  With a loud long knock,
the new-comer appealed to the door.
"Is it you, Mr. St. John?"  cried Hannah.
"Yes -- yes; open quickly."
"Well, how wet and cold you must be, such a wild night as it is!
Come in -- your sisters are quite uneasy about you, and I believe
there are bad folks about.  There has been a beggar-woman --
I declare she is not gone yet! -- laid down there.  Get up!  for
shame!  Move off, I say!"
"Hush, Hannah!  I have a word to say to the woman.  You have done
your duty in excluding, now let me do mine in admitting her.  I was
near, and listened to both you and her.  I think this is a peculiar
case -- I must at least examine into it.  Young woman, rise, and
pass before me into the house."
With difficulty I obeyed him.  Presently I stood within that
clean, bright kitchen -- on the very hearth -- trembling, sickening;
conscious of an aspect in the last degree ghastly, wild, and
weather-beaten.  The two ladies, their brother, Mr. St. John, the
old servant, were all gazing at me.
"St. John, who is it?"  I heard one ask.
"I cannot tell:  I found her at the door," was the reply.
"She does look white," said Hannah.
"As white as clay or death," was responded.  "She will fall:  let
her sit."
And indeed my head swam:  I dropped, but a chair received me.  I
still possessed my senses, though just now I could not speak.
"Perhaps a little water would restore her.  Hannah, fetch some.
But she is worn to nothing.  How very thin, and how very bloodless!"
"A mere spectre!"
"Is she ill, or only famished?"
"Famished, I think.  Hannah, is that milk?  Give it me, and a piece
of bread."
Diana (I knew her by the long curls which I saw drooping between
me and the fire as she bent over me) broke some bread, dipped it
in milk, and put it to my lips.  Her face was near mine:  I saw
there was pity in it, and I felt sympathy in her hurried breathing.
In her simple words, too, the same balm-like emotion spoke:  "Try
to eat."
"Yes -- try," repeated Mary gently; and Mary's hand removed my
sodden bonnet and lifted my head.  I tasted what they offered me:
feebly at first, eagerly soon.
"Not too much at first -- restrain her," said the brother; "she
has had enough."  And he withdrew the cup of milk and the plate of
bread.
"A little more, St. John -- look at the avidity in her eyes."
"No more at present, sister.  Try if she can speak now -- ask her
her name."
I felt I could speak, and I answered -- "My name is Jane Elliott."
Anxious as ever to avoid discovery, I had before resolved to assume
an ALIAS.
"And where do you live?  Where are your friends?"
I was silent.
"Can we send for any one you know?"
I shook my head.
"What account can you give of yourself?"
Somehow, now that I had once crossed the threshold of this house,
and once was brought face to face with its owners, I felt no longer
outcast, vagrant, and disowned by the wide world.  I dared to put
off the mendicant -- to resume my natural manner and character.
I began once more to know myself; and when Mr. St. John demanded
an account -- which at present I was far too weak to render
-- I said after a brief pause -
"Sir, I can give you no details to-night."
"But what, then," said he, "do you expect me to do for you?"
