
The tall girls went out and returned presently, each bearing a tray,
with portions of something, I knew not what, arranged thereon, and
a pitcher of water and mug in the middle of each tray.  The portions
were handed round; those who liked took a draught of the water,
the mug being common to all.  When it came to my turn, I drank, for
I was thirsty, but did not touch the food, excitement and fatigue
rendering me incapable of eating:  I now saw, however, that it was
a thin oaten cake shaved into fragments.
The meal over, prayers were read by Miss Miller, and the classes
filed off, two and two, upstairs.  Overpowered by this time with
weariness, I scarcely noticed what sort of a place the bedroom was,
except that, like the schoolroom, I saw it was very long.  To-night
I was to be Miss Miller's bed-fellow; she helped me to undress:
when laid down I glanced at the long rows of beds, each of which
was quickly filled with two occupants; in ten minutes the single
light was extinguished, and amidst silence and complete darkness
I fell asleep.
The night passed rapidly.  I was too tired even to dream; I only
once awoke to hear the wind rave in furious gusts, and the rain
fall in torrents, and to be sensible that Miss Miller had taken
her place by my side.  When I again unclosed my eyes, a loud bell
was ringing; the girls were up and dressing; day had not yet begun
to dawn, and a rushlight or two burned in the room.  I too rose
reluctantly; it was bitter cold, and I dressed as well as I could
for shivering, and washed when there was a basin at liberty, which
did not occur soon, as there was but one basin to six girls, on
the stands down the middle of the room.  Again the bell rang:  all
formed in file, two and two, and in that order descended the stairs
and entered the cold and dimly lit schoolroom:  here prayers
were read by Miss Miller; afterwards she called out -
"Form classes!"
A great tumult succeeded for some minutes, during which Miss Miller
repeatedly exclaimed, "Silence!"  and "Order!"  When it subsided,
I saw them all drawn up in four semicircles, before four chairs,
placed at the four tables; all held books in their hands, and a great
book, like a Bible, lay on each table, before the vacant seat.  A
pause of some seconds succeeded, filled up by the low, vague hum
of numbers; Miss Miller walked from class to class, hushing this
indefinite sound.
A distant bell tinkled:  immediately three ladies entered the room,
each walked to a table and took her seat.  Miss Miller assumed the
fourth vacant chair, which was that nearest the door, and around
which the smallest of the children were assembled:  to this inferior
class I was called, and placed at the bottom of it.
Business now began, the day's Collect was repeated, then certain
texts of Scripture were said, and to these succeeded a protracted
reading of chapters in the Bible, which lasted an hour.  By
the time that exercise was terminated, day had fully dawned.  The
indefatigable bell now sounded for the fourth time:  the classes
were marshalled and marched into another room to breakfast:  how
glad I was to behold a prospect of getting something to eat!  I
was now nearly sick from inanition, having taken so little the day
before.
The refectory was a great, low-ceiled, gloomy room; on two long tables
smoked basins of something hot, which, however, to my dismay, sent
forth an odour far from inviting.  I saw a universal manifestation
of discontent when the fumes of the repast met the nostrils
of those destined to swallow it; from the van of the procession,
the tall girls of the first class, rose the whispered words -
"Disgusting!  The porridge is burnt again!"
"Silence!"  ejaculated a voice; not that of Miss Miller, but one of
the upper teachers, a little and dark personage, smartly dressed,
but of somewhat morose aspect, who installed herself at the top
of one table, while a more buxom lady presided at the other.  I
looked in vain for her I had first seen the night before; she was
not visible:  Miss Miller occupied the foot of the table where I sat,
and a strange, foreign-looking, elderly lady, the French teacher,
as I afterwards found, took the corresponding seat at the other
board.  A long grace was said and a hymn sung; then a servant
brought in some tea for the teachers, and the meal began.
Ravenous, and now very faint, I devoured a spoonful or two of my
portion without thinking of its taste; but the first edge of hunger
blunted, I perceived I had got in hand a nauseous mess; burnt
porridge is almost as bad as rotten potatoes; famine itself soon
sickens over it.  The spoons were moved slowly:  I saw each girl
taste her food and try to swallow it; but in most cases the effort
was soon relinquished.  Breakfast was over, and none had breakfasted.
Thanks being returned for what we had not got, and a second hymn
chanted, the refectory was evacuated for the schoolroom.  I was one
of the last to go out, and in passing the tables, I saw one teacher
take a basin of the porridge and taste it; she looked at the others;
all their countenances expressed displeasure, and one of
them, the stout one, whispered -
"Abominable stuff!  How shameful!"
A quarter of an hour passed before lessons again began, during which
the schoolroom was in a glorious tumult; for that space of time it
seemed to be permitted to talk loud and more freely, and they used
their privilege.  The whole conversation ran on the breakfast,
which one and all abused roundly.  Poor things!  it was the sole
consolation they had.  Miss Miller was now the only teacher in the
room:  a group of great girls standing about her spoke with serious
and sullen gestures.  I heard the name of Mr. Brocklehurst pronounced
by some lips; at which Miss Miller shook her head disapprovingly;
but she made no great effort to cheek the general wrath; doubtless
she shared in it.
A clock in the schoolroom struck nine; Miss Miller left
her circle, and standing in the middle of the room, cried -
"Silence!  To your seats!"
Discipline prevailed:  in five minutes the confused throng was
resolved into order, and comparative silence quelled the Babel
clamour of tongues.  The upper teachers now punctually resumed their
posts:  but still, all seemed to wait.  Ranged on benches down the
sides of the room, the eighty girls sat motionless and erect; a
quaint assemblage they appeared, all with plain locks combed from
their faces, not a curl visible; in brown dresses, made high and
surrounded by a narrow tucker about the throat, with little pockets
of holland (shaped something like a Highlander's purse) tied in front
of their frocks, and destined to serve the purpose of a work-bag:
all, too, wearing woollen stockings and country-made shoes, fastened
with brass buckles.  Above twenty of those clad in this costume
were full-grown girls, or rather young women; it suited them ill,
and gave an air of oddity even to the prettiest.
I was still looking at them, and also at intervals examining the
teachers -- none of whom precisely pleased me; for the stout one
was a little coarse, the dark one not a little fierce, the foreigner
harsh and grotesque, and Miss Miller, poor thing!  looked purple,
weather- beaten, and over-worked -- when, as my eye wandered from
face to face, the whole school rose simultaneously, as if moved by
a common spring.
What was the matter?  I had heard no order given:  I was puzzled.
Ere I had gathered my wits, the classes were again seated:  but as
all eyes were now turned to one point, mine followed the general
direction, and encountered the personage who had received me last
night.  She stood at the bottom of the long room, on the hearth;
for there was a fire at each end; she surveyed the two rows of girls
silently and gravely.  Miss Miller approaching, seemed to ask her
a question, and having received her answer, went back to
her place, and said aloud -
"Monitor of the first class, fetch the globes!"
While the direction was being executed, the lady consulted moved
slowly up the room.  I suppose I have a considerable organ of
veneration, for I retain yet the sense of admiring awe with which
my eyes traced her steps.  Seen now, in broad daylight, she looked
tall, fair, and shapely; brown eyes with a benignant light in their
iris, and a fine pencilling of long lashes round, relieved the
whiteness of her large front; on each of her temples her hair, of
a very dark brown, was clustered in round curls, according to the
fashion of those times, when neither smooth bands nor long ringlets
were in vogue; her dress, also in the mode of the day, was of purple
cloth, relieved by a sort of Spanish trimming of black velvet;
a gold watch (watches were not so common then as now) shone at
her girdle.  Let the reader add, to complete the picture, refined
features; a complexion, if pale, clear; and a stately air and
carriage, and he will have, at least, as clearly as words can give
it, a correct idea of the exterior of Miss Temple -- Maria Temple,
as I afterwards saw the name written in a prayer-book intrusted to
me to carry to church.
The superintendent of Lowood (for such was this lady) having taken
her seat before a pair of globes placed on one of the tables,
summoned the first class round her, and commenced giving a lesson
on geography; the lower classes were called by the teachers:
repetitions in history, grammar, &c., went on for an hour; writing
and arithmetic succeeded, and music lessons were given by Miss
Temple to some of the elder girls.  The duration of each lesson
was measured by the clock, which at last struck twelve.  The
superintendent rose -
"I have a word to address to the pupils," said she.
The tumult of cessation from lessons was already breaking
forth, but it sank at her voice.  She went on -
"You had this morning a breakfast which you could not eat; you
must be hungry: -- I have ordered that a lunch of bread and cheese
shall be served to all."
The teachers looked at her with a sort of surprise.
"It is to be done on my responsibility," she added, in an explanatory
tone to them, and immediately afterwards left the room.
The bread and cheese was presently brought in and distributed, to
the high delight and refreshment of the whole school.  The order
was now given "To the garden!"  Each put on a coarse straw bonnet,
with strings of coloured calico, and a cloak of grey frieze.  I was
similarly equipped, and, following the stream, I made my way into
the open air.
The garden was a wide inclosure, surrounded with walls so high as
to exclude every glimpse of prospect; a covered verandah ran down
one side, and broad walks bordered a middle space divided into
scores of little beds:  these beds were assigned as gardens for
the pupils to cultivate, and each bed had an owner.  When full of
flowers they would doubtless look pretty; but now, at the latter
end of January, all was wintry blight and brown decay.  I shuddered
as I stood and looked round me:  it was an inclement day for outdoor
exercise; not positively rainy, but darkened by a drizzling yellow
fog; all under foot was still soaking wet with the floods of
yesterday.  The stronger among the girls ran about and engaged in
active games, but sundry pale and thin ones herded together for
shelter and warmth in the verandah; and amongst these, as the dense
mist penetrated to their shivering frames, I heard frequently the
sound of a hollow cough.
As yet I had spoken to no one, nor did anybody seem to take notice
of me; I stood lonely enough:  but to that feeling of isolation
I was accustomed; it did not oppress me much.  I leant against a
pillar of the verandah, drew my grey mantle close about me, and,
trying to forget the cold which nipped me without, and the unsatisfied
hunger which gnawed me within, delivered myself up to the employment
of watching and thinking.  My reflections were too undefined
and fragmentary to merit record:  I hardly yet knew where I was;
Gateshead and my past life seemed floated away to an immeasurable
distance; the present was vague and strange, and of the future I
could form no conjecture.  I looked round the convent-like garden,
and then up at the house -- a large building, half of which seemed
grey and old, the other half quite new.  The new part, containing
the schoolroom and dormitory, was lit by mullioned and latticed
windows, which gave it a church-like aspect; a stone tablet over
the door bore this inscription:-
"Lowood Institution. -- This portion was rebuilt A.D. -- , by Naomi
Brocklehurst, of Brocklehurst Hall, in this county."
"Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good
works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven." -- St. Matt.
v.  16.
I read these words over and over again:  I felt that an explanation
belonged to them, and was unable fully to penetrate their import.
I was still pondering the signification of "Institution," and
endeavouring to make out a connection between the first words and
the verse of Scripture, when the sound of a cough close behind me
made me turn my head.  I saw a girl sitting on a stone bench near;
she was bent over a book, on the perusal of which she seemed intent:
from where I stood I could see the title -- it was "Rasselas;" a
name that struck me as strange, and consequently attractive.  In
turning a leaf she happened to look up, and I said to her directly -
"Is your book interesting?"  I had already formed the intention of
asking her to lend it to me some day.
"I like it," she answered, after a pause of a second or two, during
which she examined me.
"What is it about?"  I continued.  I hardly know where I found the
hardihood thus to open a conversation with a stranger; the step
was contrary to my nature and habits:  but I think her occupation
touched a chord of sympathy somewhere; for I too liked reading,
though of a frivolous and childish kind; I could not digest or
comprehend the serious or substantial.
"You may look at it," replied the girl, offering me the book.
I did so; a brief examination convinced me that the contents were
less taking than the title:  "Rasselas" looked dull to my trifling
taste; I saw nothing about fairies, nothing about genii; no bright
variety seemed spread over the closely-printed pages.  I returned
it to her; she received it quietly, and without saying anything
she was about to relapse into her former studious mood:  again
I ventured to disturb her -
"Can you tell me what the writing on that stone over the door means?
What is Lowood Institution?"
"This house where you are come to live."
"And why do they call it Institution?  Is it in any way different
from other schools?"
"It is partly a charity-school:  you and I, and all the rest of
us, are charity-children.  I suppose you are an orphan:  are not
either your father or your mother dead?"
"Both died before I can remember."
"Well, all the girls here have lost either one or both parents,
and this is called an institution for educating orphans."
"Do we pay no money?  Do they keep us for nothing?"
"We pay, or our friends pay, fifteen pounds a year for each."
"Then why do they call us charity-children?"
"Because fifteen pounds is not enough for board and teaching, and
the deficiency is supplied by subscription."
"Who subscribes?"
"Different benevolent-minded ladies and gentlemen in this neighbourhood
and in London."
"Who was Naomi Brocklehurst?"
