
"Nothing," I replied.  My strength sufficed for but short
answers.  Diana took the word -
"Do you mean," she asked, "that we have now given you what aid you
require?  and that we may dismiss you to the moor and the rainy
night?"
I looked at her.  She had, I thought, a remarkable countenance,
instinct both with power and goodness.  I took sudden courage.
Answering her compassionate gaze with a smile, I said -- "I will
trust you.  If I were a masterless and stray dog, I know that you
would not turn me from your hearth to-night:  as it is, I really
have no fear.  Do with me and for me as you like; but excuse me
from much discourse -- my breath is short -- I feel a spasm when
I speak."  All three surveyed me, and all three were silent.
"Hannah," said Mr. St. John, at last, "let her sit there at
present, and ask her no questions; in ten minutes more, give her
the remainder of that milk and bread.  Mary and Diana, let us go
into the parlour and talk the matter over."
They withdrew.  Very soon one of the ladies returned -- I could
not tell which.  A kind of pleasant stupor was stealing over me as
I sat by the genial fire.  In an undertone she gave some directions
to Hannah.  Ere long, with the servant's aid, I contrived to mount
a staircase; my dripping clothes were removed; soon a warm, dry
bed received me.  I thanked God -- experienced amidst unutterable
exhaustion a glow of grateful joy -- and slept.
CHAPTER XXIX
The recollection of about three days and nights succeeding this is
very dim in my mind.  I can recall some sensations felt in that
interval; but few thoughts framed, and no actions performed.  I knew
I was in a small room and in a narrow bed.  To that bed I seemed
to have grown; I lay on it motionless as a stone; and to have torn
me from it would have been almost to kill me.  I took no note of
the lapse of time -- of the change from morning to noon, from noon
to evening.  I observed when any one entered or left the apartment:
I could even tell who they were; I could understand what was said
when the speaker stood near to me; but I could not answer; to
open my lips or move my limbs was equally impossible.  Hannah, the
servant, was my most frequent visitor.  Her coming disturbed me.  I
had a feeling that she wished me away:  that she did not understand
me or my circumstances; that she was prejudiced against me.  Diana
and Mary appeared in the chamber once or twice a day.  They
would whisper sentences of this sort at my bedside -
"It is very well we took her in."
"Yes; she would certainly have been found dead at the door in the
morning had she been left out all night.  I wonder what she has
gone through?"
"Strange hardships, I imagine -- poor, emaciated, pallid wanderer?"
"She is not an uneducated person, I should think, by her manner of
speaking; her accent was quite pure; and the clothes she took off,
though splashed and wet, were little worn and fine."
"She has a peculiar face; fleshless and haggard as it is, I rather
like it; and when in good health and animated, I can fancy her
physiognomy would be agreeable."
Never once in their dialogues did I hear a syllable of regret at
the hospitality they had extended to me, or of suspicion of, or
aversion to, myself.  I was comforted.
Mr. St. John came but once:  he looked at me, and said my state of
lethargy was the result of reaction from excessive and protracted
fatigue.  He pronounced it needless to send for a doctor:  nature,
he was sure, would manage best, left to herself.  He said every nerve
had been overstrained in some way, and the whole system must sleep
torpid a while.  There was no disease.  He imagined my recovery would
be rapid enough when once commenced.  These opinions he delivered
in a few words, in a quiet, low voice; and added, after a pause, in
the tone of a man little accustomed to expansive comment, "Rather
an unusual physiognomy; certainly, not indicative of vulgarity or
degradation."
"Far otherwise," responded Diana.  "To speak truth, St. John, my
heart rather warms to the poor little soul.  I wish we may be able
to benefit her permanently."
"That is hardly likely," was the reply.  "You will find she is
some young lady who has had a misunderstanding with her friends,
and has probably injudiciously left them.  We may, perhaps, succeed
in restoring her to them, if she is not obstinate:  but I trace lines
of force in her face which make me sceptical of her tractability."
He stood considering me some minutes; then added, "She looks
sensible, but not at all handsome."
"She is so ill, St. John."
"Ill or well, she would always be plain.  The grace and harmony of
beauty are quite wanting in those features."
On the third day I was better; on the fourth, I could speak, move,
rise in bed, and turn.  Hannah had brought me some gruel and dry
toast, about, as I supposed, the dinner-hour.  I had eaten with
relish:  the food was good -- void of the feverish flavour which
had hitherto poisoned what I had swallowed.  When she left me, I
felt comparatively strong and revived:  ere long satiety of repose
and desire for action stirred me.  I wished to rise; but what could
I put on?  Only my damp and bemired apparel; in which I had slept
on the ground and fallen in the marsh.  I felt ashamed to appear
before my benefactors so clad.  I was spared the humiliation.
On a chair by the bedside were all my own things, clean and dry.
My black silk frock hung against the wall.  The traces of the bog
were removed from it; the creases left by the wet smoothed out:  it
was quite decent.  My very shoes and stockings were purified and
rendered presentable.  There were the means of washing in the room,
and a comb and brush to smooth my hair.  After a weary process,
and resting every five minutes, I succeeded in dressing myself.
My clothes hung loose on me; for I was much wasted, but I covered
deficiencies with a shawl, and once more, clean and respectable looking
-- no speck of the dirt, no trace of the disorder I so hated, and
which seemed so to degrade me, left -- I crept down a stone staircase
with the aid of the banisters, to a narrow low passage, and found
my way presently to the kitchen.
It was full of the fragrance of new bread and the warmth of a
generous fire.  Hannah was baking.  Prejudices, it is well known,
are most difficult to eradicate from the heart whose soil has never
been loosened or fertilised by education:  they grow there, firm
as weeds among stones.  Hannah had been cold and stiff, indeed,
at the first:  latterly she had begun to relent a little; and when
she saw me come in tidy and well-dressed, she even smiled.
"What, you have got up!"  she said.  "You are better, then.  You
may sit you down in my chair on the hearthstone, if you will."
She pointed to the rocking-chair:  I took it.  She bustled about,
examining me every now and then with the corner of her eye.  Turning
to me, as she took some loaves from the oven, she asked bluntly -
"Did you ever go a-begging afore you came here?"
I was indignant for a moment; but remembering that anger was out
of the question, and that I had indeed appeared as a beggar to her,
I answered quietly, but still not without a certain marked firmness -
"You are mistaken in supposing me a beggar.  I am no beggar; any
more than yourself or your young ladies."
After a pause she said, "I dunnut understand that:  you've like no
house, nor no brass, I guess?"
"The want of house or brass (by which I suppose you mean money)
does not make a beggar in your sense of the word."
"Are you book-learned?"  she inquired presently.
"Yes, very."
"But you've never been to a boarding-school?"
"I was at a boarding-school eight years."
She opened her eyes wide.  "Whatever cannot ye keep yourself for,
then?"
"I have kept myself; and, I trust, shall keep myself again.  What
are you going to do with these gooseberries?"  I inquired, as she
brought out a basket of the fruit.
"Mak' 'em into pies."
"Give them to me and I'll pick them."
"Nay; I dunnut want ye to do nought."
"But I must do something.  Let me have them."
She consented; and she even brought me a clean towel to spread over
my dress, "lest," as she said, "I should mucky it."
"Ye've not been used to sarvant's wark, I see by your hands," she
remarked.  "Happen ye've been a dressmaker?"
"No, you are wrong.  And now, never mind what I have been:  don't
trouble your head further about me; but tell me the name of the
house where we are."
"Some calls it Marsh End, and some calls it Moor House."
"And the gentleman who lives here is called Mr. St. John?"
"Nay; he doesn't live here:  he is only staying a while.  When he
is at home, he is in his own parish at Morton."
"That village a few miles off?
"Aye."
"And what is he?"
