
"He is a parson."
I remembered the answer of the old housekeeper at the parsonage,
when I had asked to see the clergyman.  "This, then, was his father's
residence?"
"Aye; old Mr. Rivers lived here, and his father, and grandfather,
and gurt (great) grandfather afore him."
"The name, then, of that gentleman, is Mr. St. John Rivers?"
"Aye; St. John is like his kirstened name."
"And his sisters are called Diana and Mary Rivers?"
"Yes."
"Their father is dead?"
"Dead three weeks sin' of a stroke."
"They have no mother?"
"The mistress has been dead this mony a year."
"Have you lived with the family long?"
"I've lived here thirty year.  I nursed them all three."
"That proves you must have been an honest and faithful servant.
I will say so much for you, though you have had the incivility to
call me a beggar."
She again regarded me with a surprised stare.  "I believe," she
said, "I was quite mista'en in my thoughts of you:  but there is
so mony cheats goes about, you mun forgie me."
"And though," I continued, rather severely, "you wished to turn me
from the door, on a night when you should not have shut out a dog."
"Well, it was hard:  but what can a body do?  I thought more o' th'
childer nor of mysel:  poor things!  They've like nobody to tak'
care on 'em but me.  I'm like to look sharpish."
I maintained a grave silence for some minutes.
"You munnut think too hardly of me," she again remarked.
"But I do think hardly of you," I said; "and I'll tell you why --
not so much because you refused to give me shelter, or regarded me
as an impostor, as because you just now made it a species of reproach
that I had no 'brass' and no house.  Some of the best people that
ever lived have been as destitute as I am; and if you are a Christian,
you ought not to consider poverty a crime."
"No more I ought," said she:  "Mr. St. John tells me so too; and
I see I wor wrang -- but I've clear a different notion on you now
to what I had.  You look a raight down dacent little crater."
"That will do -- I forgive you now.  Shake hands."
She put her floury and horny hand into mine; another and heartier
smile illumined her rough face, and from that moment we were friends.
Hannah was evidently fond of talking.  While I picked the fruit,
and she made the paste for the pies, she proceeded to give me sundry
details about her deceased master and mistress, and "the childer,"
as she called the young people.
Old Mr. Rivers, she said, was a plain man enough, but a gentleman, and
of as ancient a family as could be found.  Marsh End had belonged
to the Rivers ever since it was a house:  and it was, she affirmed,
"aboon two hundred year old -- for all it looked but a small,
humble place, naught to compare wi' Mr. Oliver's grand hall down
i' Morton Vale.  But she could remember Bill Oliver's father a
journeyman needlemaker; and th' Rivers wor gentry i' th' owd days
o' th' Henrys, as onybody might see by looking into th' registers
i' Morton Church vestry."  Still, she allowed, "the owd maister was
like other folk -- naught mich out o' t' common way:  stark mad o'
shooting, and farming, and sich like."  The mistress was different.
She was a great reader, and studied a deal; and the "bairns" had
taken after her.  There was nothing like them in these parts, nor
ever had been; they had liked learning, all three, almost from
the time they could speak; and they had always been "of a mak' of
their own."  Mr. St. John, when he grew up, would go to college
and be a parson; and the girls, as soon as they left school, would
seek places as governesses:  for they had told her their father had
some years ago lost a great deal of money by a man he had trusted
turning bankrupt; and as he was now not rich enough to give them
fortunes, they must provide for themselves.  They had lived very
little at home for a long while, and were only come now to stay a
few weeks on account of their father's death; but they did so like
Marsh End and Morton, and all these moors and hills about.  They
had been in London, and many other grand towns; but they always
said there was no place like home; and then they were so agreeable
with each other -- never fell out nor "threaped."  She did not know
where there was such a family for being united.
Having finished my task of gooseberry picking, I asked where the
two ladies and their brother were now.
"Gone over to Morton for a walk; but they would be back in half-an-hour
to tea."
They returned within the time Hannah had allotted them:  they
entered by the kitchen door.  Mr. St. John, when he saw me, merely
bowed and passed through; the two ladies stopped:  Mary, in a few
words, kindly and calmly expressed the pleasure she felt in seeing
me well enough to be able to come down; Diana took my hand:  she
shook her head at me.
"You should have waited for my leave to descend," she said.  "You
still look very pale -- and so thin!  Poor child! -- poor girl!"
Diana had a voice toned, to my ear, like the cooing of a dove.
She possessed eyes whose gaze I delighted to encounter.  Her whole
face seemed to me full of charm.  Mary's countenance was equally
intelligent -- her features equally pretty; but her expression
was more reserved, and her manners, though gentle, more distant.
Diana looked and spoke with a certain authority:  she had a will,
evidently.  It was my nature to feel pleasure in yielding to an
authority supported like hers, and to bend, where my conscience
and self-respect permitted, to an active will.
"And what business have you here?"  she continued.  "It is not your
place.  Mary and I sit in the kitchen sometimes, because at home
we like to be free, even to license -- but you are a visitor, and
must go into the parlour."
"I am very well here."
"Not at all, with Hannah bustling about and covering you with
flour."
"Besides, the fire is too hot for you," interposed Mary.
"To be sure," added her sister.  "Come, you must be obedient."  And
still holding my hand she made me rise, and led me into the inner
room.
"Sit there," she said, placing me on the sofa, "while we take
our things off and get the tea ready; it is another privilege we
exercise in our little moorland home -- to prepare our own meals
when we are so inclined, or when Hannah is baking, brewing, washing,
or ironing."
She closed the door, leaving me solus with Mr. St. John, who sat
opposite, a book or newspaper in his hand.  I examined first, the
parlour, and then its occupant.
The parlour was rather a small room, very plainly furnished, yet
comfortable, because clean and neat.  The old-fashioned chairs were
very bright, and the walnut-wood table was like a looking-glass.  A
few strange, antique portraits of the men and women of other days
decorated the stained walls; a cupboard with glass doors contained
some books and an ancient set of china.  There was no superfluous
ornament in the room -- not one modern piece of furniture, save a
brace of workboxes and a lady's desk in rosewood, which stood on
a side-table:  everything -- including the carpet and curtains --
looked at once well worn and well saved.
Mr. St. John -- sitting as still as one of the dusty pictures on
the walls, keeping his eyes fixed on the page he perused, and his
lips mutely sealed -- was easy enough to examine.  Had he been
a statue instead of a man, he could not have been easier.  He was
young -- perhaps from twenty-eight to thirty -- tall, slender;
his face riveted the eye; it was like a Greek face, very pure in
outline:  quite a straight, classic nose; quite an Athenian mouth
and chin.  It is seldom, indeed, an English face comes so near the
antique models as did his.  He might well be a little shocked at
the irregularity of my lineaments, his own being so harmonious.
His eyes were large and blue, with brown lashes; his high forehead,
colourless as ivory, was partially streaked over by careless locks
of fair hair.
This is a gentle delineation, is it not, reader?  Yet he whom
it describes scarcely impressed one with the idea of a gentle, a
yielding, an impressible, or even of a placid nature.  Quiescent
as he now sat, there was something about his nostril, his mouth,
his brow, which, to my perceptions, indicated elements within either
restless, or hard, or eager.  He did not speak to me one word, nor
even direct to me one glance, till his sisters returned.  Diana,
as she passed in and out, in the course of preparing tea, brought
me a little cake, baked on the top of the oven.
"Eat that now," she said:  "you must be hungry.  Hannah says you
have had nothing but some gruel since breakfast."
I did not refuse it, for my appetite was awakened and keen.  Mr.
Rivers now closed his book, approached the table, and, as he took
a seat, fixed his blue pictorial-looking eyes full on me.  There
was an unceremonious directness, a searching, decided steadfastness
in his gaze now, which told that intention, and not diffidence,
had hitherto kept it averted from the stranger.
"You are very hungry," he said.
"I am, sir."  It is my way -- it always was my way, by instinct --
ever to meet the brief with brevity, the direct with plainness.
"It is well for you that a low fever has forced you to abstain for
the last three days:  there would have been danger in yielding to
the cravings of your appetite at first.  Now you may eat, though
still not immoderately."
"I trust I shall not eat long at your expense, sir," was my very
clumsily-contrived, unpolished answer.
"No," he said coolly:  "when you have indicated to us the residence
of your friends, we can write to them, and you may be restored to
home."
"That, I must plainly tell you, is out of my power to do; being
absolutely without home and friends."
The three looked at me, but not distrustfully; I felt there was no
suspicion in their glances:  there was more of curiosity.  I speak
particularly of the young ladies.  St. John's eyes, though clear
enough in a literal sense, in a figurative one were difficult
to fathom.  He seemed to use them rather as instruments to search
other people's thoughts, than as agents to reveal his own:  the
which combination of keenness and reserve was considerably more
calculated to embarrass than to encourage.
"Do you mean to say," he asked, "that you are completely isolated
from every connection?"
