
It began calm -- and indeed, as far as delivery and pitch of voice
went, it was calm to the end:  an earnestly felt, yet strictly
restrained zeal breathed soon in the distinct accents, and prompted
the nervous language.  This grew to force -- compressed, condensed,
controlled.  The heart was thrilled, the mind astonished, by the
power of the preacher:  neither were softened.  Throughout there
was a strange bitterness; an absence of consolatory gentleness;
stern allusions to Calvinistic doctrines -- election, predestination,
reprobation -- were frequent; and each reference to these points
sounded like a sentence pronounced for doom.  When he had done,
instead of feeling better, calmer, more enlightened by his discourse,
I experienced an inexpressible sadness; for it seemed to me -- I
know not whether equally so to others -- that the eloquence to which
I had been listening had sprung from a depth where lay turbid dregs
of disappointment -- where moved troubling impulses of insatiate
yearnings and disquieting aspirations.  I was sure St. John Rivers
-- pure-lived, conscientious, zealous as he was -- had not yet
found that peace of God which passeth all understanding:  he had no
more found it, I thought, than had I with my concealed and racking
regrets for my broken idol and lost elysium -- regrets to which I
have latterly avoided referring, but which possessed me and tyrannised
over me ruthlessly.
Meantime a month was gone.  Diana and Mary were soon to leave Moor
House, and return to the far different life and scene which awaited
them, as governesses in a large, fashionable, south-of-England
city, where each held a situation in families by whose wealthy
and haughty members they were regarded only as humble dependants,
and who neither knew nor sought out their innate excellences, and
appreciated only their acquired accomplishments as they appreciated
the skill of their cook or the taste of their waiting-woman.  Mr.
St. John had said nothing to me yet about the employment he had
promised to obtain for me; yet it became urgent that I should have
a vocation of some kind.  One morning, being left alone with him a
few minutes in the parlour, I ventured to approach the window-recess
-- which his table, chair, and desk consecrated as a kind of study
-- and I was going to speak, though not very well knowing in what
words to frame my inquiry -- for it is at all times difficult to
break the ice of reserve glassing over such natures as his -- when
he saved me the trouble by being the first to commence a dialogue.
Looking up as I drew near -- "You have a question to ask of me?"
he said.
"Yes; I wish to know whether you have heard of any service I can
offer myself to undertake?"
"I found or devised something for you three weeks ago; but as you
seemed both useful and happy here -- as my sisters had evidently
become attached to you, and your society gave them unusual pleasure
-- I deemed it inexpedient to break in on your mutual comfort till
their approaching departure from Marsh End should render yours
necessary."
"And they will go in three days now?"  I said.
"Yes; and when they go, I shall return to the parsonage at Morton:
Hannah will accompany me; and this old house will be shut up."
I waited a few moments, expecting he would go on with the subject
first broached:  but he seemed to have entered another train of
reflection:  his look denoted abstraction from me and my business.
I was obliged to recall him to a theme which was of necessity one
of close and anxious interest to me.
"What is the employment you had in view, Mr. Rivers?  I hope this
delay will not have increased the difficulty of securing it."
"Oh, no; since it is an employment which depends only on me to
give, and you to accept."
He again paused:  there seemed a reluctance to continue.  I grew
impatient:  a restless movement or two, and an eager and exacting
glance fastened on his face, conveyed the feeling to him as
effectually as words could have done, and with less trouble.
"You need be in no hurry to hear," he said:  "let me frankly tell
you, I have nothing eligible or profitable to suggest.  Before I
explain, recall, if you please, my notice, clearly given, that if
I helped you, it must be as the blind man would help the lame.  I
am poor; for I find that, when I have paid my father's debts, all
the patrimony remaining to me will be this crumbling grange, the
row of scathed firs behind, and the patch of moorish soil, with the
yew-trees and holly-bushes in front.  I am obscure:  Rivers is an
old name; but of the three sole descendants of the race, two earn
the dependant's crust among strangers, and the third considers
himself an alien from his native country -- not only for life, but
in death.  Yes, and deems, and is bound to deem, himself honoured by
the lot, and aspires but after the day when the cross of separation
from fleshly ties shall be laid on his shoulders, and when the
Head of that church-militant of whose humblest members he is one,
shall give the word, 'Rise, follow Me!'"
St. John said these words as he pronounced his sermons, with
a quiet, deep voice; with an unflushed cheek, and a coruscating
radiance of glance.  He resumed -
"And since I am myself poor and obscure, I can offer you but a
service of poverty and obscurity.  YOU may even think it degrading
-- for I see now your habits have been what the world calls refined:
your tastes lean to the ideal, and your society has at least been
amongst the educated; but I consider that no service degrades which
can better our race.  I hold that the more arid and unreclaimed
the soil where the Christian labourer's task of tillage is appointed
him -- the scantier the meed his toil brings -- the higher the honour.
His, under such circumstances, is the destiny of the pioneer; and
the first pioneers of the Gospel were the Apostles -- their captain
was Jesus, the Redeemer, Himself."
"Well?"  I said, as he again paused -- "proceed."
He looked at me before he proceeded:  indeed, he seemed leisurely
to read my face, as if its features and lines were characters
on a page.  The conclusions drawn from this scrutiny he partially
expressed in his succeeding observations.
"I believe you will accept the post I offer you," said he, "and
hold it for a while:  not permanently, though:  any more than I
could permanently keep the narrow and narrowing -- the tranquil,
hidden office of English country incumbent; for in your nature
is an alloy as detrimental to repose as that in mine, though of a
different kind."
"Do explain," I urged, when he halted once more.
"I will; and you shall hear how poor the proposal is, -- how trivial
-- how cramping.  I shall not stay long at Morton, now that my
father is dead, and that I am my own master.  I shall leave the
place probably in the course of a twelve-month; but while I do stay,
I will exert myself to the utmost for its improvement.  Morton,
when I came to it two years ago, had no school:  the children of
the poor were excluded from every hope of progress.  I established
one for boys:  I mean now to open a second school for girls.  I
have hired a building for the purpose, with a cottage of two rooms
attached to it for the mistress's house.  Her salary will be thirty
pounds a year:  her house is already furnished, very simply, but
sufficiently, by the kindness of a lady, Miss Oliver; the only
daughter of the sole rich man in my parish -- Mr. Oliver, the
proprietor of a needle-factory and iron-foundry in the valley.  The
same lady pays for the education and clothing of an orphan from
the workhouse, on condition that she shall aid the mistress in such
menial offices connected with her own house and the school as her
occupation of teaching will prevent her having time to discharge
in person.  Will you be this mistress?"
He put the question rather hurriedly; he seemed half to expect an
indignant, or at least a disdainful rejection of the offer:  not
knowing all my thoughts and feelings, though guessing some, he
could not tell in what light the lot would appear to me.  In truth
it was humble -- but then it was sheltered, and I wanted a safe asylum:
it was plodding -- but then, compared with that of a governess in
a rich house, it was independent; and the fear of servitude with
strangers entered my soul like iron:  it was not ignoble -- not
unworthy -- not mentally degrading, I made my decision.
"I thank you for the proposal, Mr. Rivers, and I accept it with
all my heart."
"But you comprehend me?"  he said.  "It is a village school:  your
scholars will be only poor girls -- cottagers' children -- at the
best, farmers' daughters.  Knitting, sewing, reading, writing,
ciphering, will be all you will have to teach.  What will you do
with your accomplishments?  What, with the largest portion of your
mind -- sentiments -- tastes?"
"Save them till they are wanted.  They will keep."
"You know what you undertake, then?"
"I do."
He now smiled:  and not a bitter or a sad smile, but one well
pleased and deeply gratified.
"And when will you commence the exercise of your function?"
"I will go to my house to-morrow, and open the school, if you like,
next week."
"Very well:  so be it."
He rose and walked through the room.  Standing still, he again
looked at me.  He shook his head.
"What do you disapprove of, Mr. Rivers?"  I asked.
"You will not stay at Morton long:  no, no!"
"Why?  What is your reason for saying so?"
"I read it in your eye; it is not of that description which promises
the maintenance of an even tenor in life."
"I am not ambitious."
He started at the word "ambitious."  He repeated, "No.  What made
you think of ambition?  Who is ambitious?  I know I am:  but how
did you find it out?"
"I was speaking of myself."
"Well, if you are not ambitious, you are -- " He paused.
"What?"
"I was going to say, impassioned:  but perhaps you would have
misunderstood the word, and been displeased.  I mean, that human
affections and sympathies have a most powerful hold on you.  I am
sure you cannot long be content to pass your leisure in solitude,
and to devote your working hours to a monotonous labour wholly
void of stimulus:  any more than I can be content," he added, with
emphasis, "to live here buried in morass, pent in with mountains
-- my nature, that God gave me, contravened; my faculties,
heaven-bestowed, paralysed -- made useless.  You hear now how I
contradict myself.  I, who preached contentment with a humble lot,
and justified the vocation even of hewers of wood and drawers of
water in God's service -- I, His ordained minister, almost rave
in my restlessness.  Well, propensities and principles must be
reconciled by some means."
He left the room.  In this brief hour I had learnt more of him than
in the whole previous month:  yet still he puzzled me.
Diana and Mary Rivers became more sad and silent as the day
approached for leaving their brother and their home.  They both
tried to appear as usual; but the sorrow they had to struggle against
was one that could not be entirely conquered or concealed.  Diana
intimated that this would be a different parting from any they had
ever yet known.  It would probably, as far as St. John was concerned,
be a parting for years:  it might be a parting for life.
"He will sacrifice all to his long-framed resolves," she said:
"natural affection and feelings more potent still.  St. John looks
quiet, Jane; but he hides a fever in his vitals.  You would think
him gentle, yet in some things he is inexorable as death; and the
worst of it is, my conscience will hardly permit me to dissuade him
from his severe decision:  certainly, I cannot for a moment blame
him for it.  It is right, noble, Christian:  yet it breaks my
heart!"  And the tears gushed to her fine eyes.  Mary bent her head
low over her work.
"We are now without father:  we shall soon be without home and
brother," she murmured,
At that moment a little accident supervened, which seemed decreed
by fate purposely to prove the truth of the adage, that "misfortunes
never come singly," and to add to their distresses the vexing one
of the slip between the cup and the lip.  St. John passed the window
reading a letter.  He entered.
"Our uncle John is dead," said he.
Both the sisters seemed struck:  not shocked or appalled; the
tidings appeared in their eyes rather momentous than afflicting.
"Dead?"  repeated Diana.
"Yes."
She riveted a searching gaze on her brother's face.  "And what
then?"  she demanded, in a low voice.
