
"You have indeed.  She is teachable and handy."  (This then, I thought,
is Miss Oliver, the heiress; favoured, it seems, in the gifts of
fortune, as well as in those of nature!  What happy combination of
the planets presided over her birth, I wonder?)
"I shall come up and help you to teach sometimes," she added.  "It
will be a change for me to visit you now and then; and I like a
change.  Mr. Rivers, I have been SO gay during my stay at S-.  Last
night, or rather this morning, I was dancing till two o'clock.  The
-th regiment are stationed there since the riots; and the officers
are the most agreeable men in the world:  they put all our young
knife-grinders and scissor merchants to shame."
It seemed to me that Mr. St. John's under lip protruded, and his
upper lip curled a moment.  His mouth certainly looked a good deal
compressed, and the lower part of his face unusually stern and
square, as the laughing girl gave him this information.  He lifted
his gaze, too, from the daisies, and turned it on her.  An unsmiling,
a searching, a meaning gaze it was.  She answered it with a second
laugh, and laughter well became her youth, her roses, her dimples,
her bright eyes.
As he stood, mute and grave, she again fell to caressing Carlo.
"Poor Carlo loves me," said she.  "HE is not stern and distant to
his friends; and if he could speak, he would not be silent."
As she patted the dog's head, bending with native grace before his
young and austere master, I saw a glow rise to that master's face.
I saw his solemn eye melt with sudden fire, and flicker with
resistless emotion.  Flushed and kindled thus, he looked nearly as
beautiful for a man as she for a woman.  His chest heaved once, as
if his large heart, weary of despotic constriction, had expanded,
despite the will, and made a vigorous bound for the attainment of
liberty.  But he curbed it, I think, as a resolute rider would curb
a rearing steed.  He responded neither by word nor movement to the
gentle advances made him.
"Papa says you never come to see us now," continued Miss Oliver,
looking up.  "You are quite a stranger at Vale Hall.  He is alone
this evening, and not very well:  will you return with me and visit
him?"
"It is not a seasonable hour to intrude on Mr. Oliver," answered
St. John.
"Not a seasonable hour!  But I declare it is.  It is just the hour
when papa most wants company:  when the works are closed and he
has no business to occupy him.  Now, Mr. Rivers, DO come.  Why are
you so very shy, and so very sombre?"  She filled up the hiatus
his silence left by a reply of her own.
"I forgot!"  she exclaimed, shaking her beautiful curled head, as
if shocked at herself.  "I am so giddy and thoughtless!  DO excuse
me.  It had slipped my memory that you have good reasons to be
indisposed for joining in my chatter.  Diana and Mary have left
you, and Moor House is shut up, and you are so lonely.  I am sure
I pity you.  Do come and see papa."
"Not to-night, Miss Rosamond, not to-night."
Mr. St. John spoke almost like an automaton:  himself only knew
the effort it cost him thus to refuse.
"Well, if you are so obstinate, I will leave you; for I dare not
stay any longer:  the dew begins to fall.  Good evening!"
She held out her hand.  He just touched it.  "Good evening!"  he
repeated, in a voice low and hollow as an echo.  She turned, but
in a moment returned.
"Are you well?"  she asked.  Well might she put the question:  his
face was blanched as her gown.
"Quite well," he enunciated; and, with a bow, he left the gate.
She went one way; he another.  She turned twice to gaze after him
as she tripped fairy-like down the field; he, as he strode firmly
across, never turned at all.
This spectacle of another's suffering and sacrifice rapt my thoughts
from exclusive meditation on my own.  Diana Rivers had designated
her brother "inexorable as death."  She had not exaggerated.
CHAPTER XXXII
I continued the labours of the village-school as actively and
faithfully as I could.  It was truly hard work at first.  Some time
elapsed before, with all my efforts, I could comprehend my scholars
and their nature.  Wholly untaught, with faculties quite torpid,
they seemed to me hopelessly dull; and, at first sight, all dull
alike:  but I soon found I was mistaken.  There was a difference
amongst them as amongst the educated; and when I got to know them,
and they me, this difference rapidly developed itself.  Their
amazement at me, my language, my rules, and ways, once subsided,
I found some of these heavy-looking, gaping rustics wake up into
sharp-witted girls enough.  Many showed themselves obliging, and
amiable too; and I discovered amongst them not a few examples of
natural politeness, and innate self-respect, as well as of excellent
capacity, that won both my goodwill and my admiration.  These soon
took a pleasure in doing their work well, in keeping their persons
neat, in learning their tasks regularly, in acquiring quiet and
orderly manners.  The rapidity of their progress, in some instances,
was even surprising; and an honest and happy pride I took in it:
besides, I began personally to like some of the best girls; and they
liked me.  I had amongst my scholars several farmers' daughters:
young women grown, almost.  These could already read, write, and sew;
and to them I taught the elements of grammar, geography, history,
and the finer kinds of needlework.  I found estimable characters
amongst them -- characters desirous of information and disposed
for improvement -- with whom I passed many a pleasant evening hour
in their own homes.  Their parents then (the farmer and his wife)
loaded me with attentions.  There was an enjoyment in accepting
their simple kindness, and in repaying it by a consideration
-- a scrupulous regard to their feelings -- to which they were
not, perhaps, at all times accustomed, and which both charmed and
benefited them; because, while it elevated them in their own eyes, it
made them emulous to merit the deferential treatment they received.
I felt I became a favourite in the neighbourhood.  Whenever I went
out, I heard on all sides cordial salutations, and was welcomed with
friendly smiles.  To live amidst general regard, though it be but
the regard of working people, is like "sitting in sunshine, calm
and sweet;" serene inward feelings bud and bloom under the ray.
At this period of my life, my heart far oftener swelled with
thankfulness than sank with dejection:  and yet, reader, to tell
you all, in the midst of this calm, this useful existence -- after
a day passed in honourable exertion amongst my scholars, an evening
spent in drawing or reading contentedly alone -- I used to rush into
strange dreams at night:  dreams many-coloured, agitated, full of
the ideal, the stirring, the stormy -- dreams where, amidst unusual
scenes, charged with adventure, with agitating risk and romantic
chance, I still again and again met Mr. Rochester, always at some
exciting crisis; and then the sense of being in his arms, hearing
his voice, meeting his eye, touching his hand and cheek, loving
him, being loved by him -- the hope of passing a lifetime at his
side, would be renewed, with all its first force and fire.  Then
I awoke.  Then I recalled where I was, and how situated.  Then I
rose up on my curtainless bed, trembling and quivering; and then
the still, dark night witnessed the convulsion of despair, and
heard the burst of passion.  By nine o'clock the next morning I
was punctually opening the school; tranquil, settled, prepared for
the steady duties of the day.
Rosamond Oliver kept her word in coming to visit me.  Her call at
the school was generally made in the course of her morning ride.
She would canter up to the door on her pony, followed by a mounted
livery servant.  Anything more exquisite than her appearance,
in her purple habit, with her Amazon's cap of black velvet placed
gracefully above the long curls that kissed her cheek and floated
to her shoulders, can scarcely be imagined:  and it was thus she
would enter the rustic building, and glide through the dazzled ranks
of the village children.  She generally came at the hour when Mr.
Rivers was engaged in giving his daily catechising lesson.  Keenly,
I fear, did the eye of the visitress pierce the young pastor's
heart.  A sort of instinct seemed to warn him of her entrance, even
when he did not see it; and when he was looking quite away from the
door, if she appeared at it, his cheek would glow, and his marble-
seeming features, though they refused to relax, changed indescribably,
and in their very quiescence became expressive of a repressed fervour,
stronger than working muscle or darting glance could indicate.
Of course, she knew her power:  indeed, he did not, because he could
not, conceal it from her.  In spite of his Christian stoicism, when
she went up and addressed him, and smiled gaily, encouragingly,
even fondly in his face, his hand would tremble and his eye burn.
He seemed to say, with his sad and resolute look, if he did not
say it with his lips, "I love you, and I know you prefer me.  It is
not despair of success that keeps me dumb.  If I offered my heart,
I believe you would accept it.  But that heart is already laid on
a sacred altar:  the fire is arranged round it.  It will soon be
no more than a sacrifice consumed."
And then she would pout like a disappointed child; a pensive cloud
would soften her radiant vivacity; she would withdraw her hand
hastily from his, and turn in transient petulance from his aspect,
at once so heroic and so martyr-like.  St. John, no doubt, would
have given the world to follow, recall, retain her, when she thus
left him; but he would not give one chance of heaven, nor relinquish,
for the elysium of her love, one hope of the true, eternal Paradise.
Besides, he could not bind all that he had in his nature -- the
rover, the aspirant, the poet, the priest -- in the limits of a
single passion.  He could not -- he would not -- renounce his wild
field of mission warfare for the parlours and the peace of Vale
Hall.  I learnt so much from himself in an inroad I once, despite
his reserve, had the daring to make on his confidence.
Miss Oliver already honoured me with frequent visits to my cottage.
I had learnt her whole character, which was without mystery or
disguise:  she was coquettish but not heartless; exacting, but not
worthlessly selfish.  She had been indulged from her birth, but was
not absolutely spoilt.  She was hasty, but good-humoured; vain (she
could not help it, when every glance in the glass showed her such
a flush of loveliness), but not affected; liberal-handed; innocent
of the pride of wealth; ingenuous; sufficiently intelligent; gay,
lively, and unthinking:  she was very charming, in short, even to
a cool observer of her own sex like me; but she was not profoundly
interesting or thoroughly impressive.  A very different sort of
mind was hers from that, for instance, of the sisters of St. John.
Still, I liked her almost as I liked my pupil Adele; except that,
for a child whom we have watched over and taught, a closer affection is
engendered than we can give an equally attractive adult acquaintance.
She had taken an amiable caprice to me.  She said I was like Mr.
Rivers, only, certainly, she allowed, "not one-tenth so handsome,
though I was a nice neat little soul enough, but he was an angel."
I was, however, good, clever, composed, and firm, like him.  I was
a lusus naturae, she affirmed, as a village schoolmistress:  she
was sure my previous history, if known, would make a delightful
romance.
One evening, while, with her usual child-like activity, and thoughtless
yet not offensive inquisitiveness, she was rummaging the cupboard
and the table-drawer of my little kitchen, she discovered first two
French books, a volume of Schiller, a German grammar and dictionary,
and then my drawing-materials and some sketches, including a
pencil-head of a pretty little cherub-like girl, one of my scholars,
and sundry views from nature, taken in the Vale of Morton and on
the surrounding moors.  She was first transfixed with surprise,
and then electrified with delight.
"Had I done these pictures?  Did I know French and German?  What
a love -- what a miracle I was!  I drew better than her master in
the first school in S-.  Would I sketch a portrait of her, to show
to papa?"
"With pleasure," I replied; and I felt a thrill of artist-delight
at the idea of copying from so perfect and radiant a model.  She
had then on a dark-blue silk dress; her arms and her neck were
bare; her only ornament was her chestnut tresses, which waved over
her shoulders with all the wild grace of natural curls.  I took a
sheet of fine card-board, and drew a careful outline.  I promised
myself the pleasure of colouring it; and, as it was getting late
then, I told her she must come and sit another day.
She made such a report of me to her father, that Mr. Oliver
himself accompanied her next evening -- a tall, massive-featured,
middle-aged, and grey-headed man, at whose side his lovely daughter
looked like a bright flower near a hoary turret.  He appeared
a taciturn, and perhaps a proud personage; but he was very kind
to me.  The sketch of Rosamond's portrait pleased him highly:  he
said I must make a finished picture of it.  He insisted, too, on
my coming the next day to spend the evening at Vale Hall.
I went.  I found it a large, handsome residence, showing abundant
evidences of wealth in the proprietor.  Rosamond was full of glee
and pleasure all the time I stayed.  Her father was affable; and
when he entered into conversation with me after tea, he expressed
in strong terms his approbation of what I had done in Morton school,
and said he only feared, from what he saw and heard, I was too good
for the place, and would soon quit it for one more suitable.
"Indeed," cried Rosamond, "she is clever enough to be a governess
in a high family, papa."
I thought I would far rather be where I am than in any high family
in the land.  Mr. Oliver spoke of Mr. Rivers -- of the Rivers family
-- with great respect.  He said it was a very old name in that
neighbourhood; that the ancestors of the house were wealthy; that
all Morton had once belonged to them; that even now he considered
the representative of that house might, if he liked, make an alliance
with the best.  He accounted it a pity that so fine and talented a
young man should have formed the design of going out as a missionary;
it was quite throwing a valuable life away.  It appeared, then,
that her father would throw no obstacle in the way of Rosamond's
union with St. John.  Mr. Oliver evidently regarded the young
clergyman's good birth, old name, and sacred profession as sufficient
compensation for the want of fortune.
It was the 5th of November, and a holiday.  My little servant,
after helping me to clean my house, was gone, well satisfied with
the fee of a penny for her aid.  All about me was spotless and
bright -- scoured floor, polished grate, and well-rubbed chairs.
I had also made myself neat, and had now the afternoon before me
to spend as I would.
The translation of a few pages of German occupied an hour; then I
got my palette and pencils, and fell to the more soothing, because
easier occupation, of completing Rosamond Oliver's miniature.  The
head was finished already:  there was but the background to tint
and the drapery to shade off; a touch of carmine, too, to add to
the ripe lips -- a soft curl here and there to the tresses -- a
deeper tinge to the shadow of the lash under the azured eyelid.  I
was absorbed in the execution of these nice details, when, after
one rapid tap, my door unclosed, admitting St. John Rivers.
"I am come to see how you are spending your holiday," he said.  "Not,
I hope, in thought?  No, that is well:  while you draw you will
not feel lonely.  You see, I mistrust you still, though you have
borne up wonderfully so far.  I have brought you a book for evening
solace," and he laid on the table a new publication -- a poem:  one
of those genuine productions so often vouchsafed to the fortunate
public of those days -- the golden age of modern literature.  Alas!
the readers of our era are less favoured.  But courage!  I will
not pause either to accuse or repine.  I know poetry is not dead,
nor genius lost; nor has Mammon gained power over either, to bind
or slay:  they will both assert their existence, their presence,
their liberty and strength again one day.  Powerful angels, safe
in heaven!  they smile when sordid souls triumph, and feeble ones
weep over their destruction.  Poetry destroyed?  Genius banished?
No!  Mediocrity, no:  do not let envy prompt you to the thought.
No; they not only live, but reign and redeem:  and without their
divine influence spread everywhere, you would be in hell -- the
hell of your own meanness.
While I was eagerly glancing at the bright pages of "Marmion" (for
"Marmion" it was), St. John stooped to examine my drawing.  His
tall figure sprang erect again with a start:  he said nothing.  I
looked up at him:  he shunned my eye.  I knew his thoughts well,
and could read his heart plainly; at the moment I felt calmer and
cooler than he:  I had then temporarily the advantage of him, and
I conceived an inclination to do him some good, if I could.
"With all his firmness and self-control," thought I, "he tasks
himself too far:  locks every feeling and pang within -- expresses,
confesses, imparts nothing.  I am sure it would benefit him to talk
a little about this sweet Rosamond, whom he thinks he ought not to
marry:  I will make him talk."
I said first, "Take a chair, Mr. Rivers."  But he answered, as
he always did, that he could not stay.  "Very well," I responded,
mentally, "stand if you like; but you shall not go just yet, I am
determined:  solitude is at least as bad for you as it is for me.
I'll try if I cannot discover the secret spring of your confidence,
and find an aperture in that marble breast through which I can shed
one drop of the balm of sympathy."
"Is this portrait like?"  I asked bluntly.
"Like!  Like whom?  I did not observe it closely."
"You did, Mr. Rivers."
He almost started at my sudden and strange abruptness:  he looked
at me astonished.  "Oh, that is nothing yet," I muttered within.
"I don't mean to be baffled by a little stiffness on your part;
I'm prepared to go to considerable lengths."  I continued, "You
observed it closely and distinctly; but I have no objection to your
looking at it again," and I rose and placed it in his hand.
"A well-executed picture," he said; "very soft, clear colouring;
very graceful and correct drawing."
"Yes, yes; I know all that.  But what of the resemblance?  Who is
it like?"
Mastering some hesitation, he answered, "Miss Oliver, I presume."
"Of course.  And now, sir, to reward you for the accurate guess, I
will promise to paint you a careful and faithful duplicate of this
very picture, provided you admit that the gift would be acceptable
to you.  I don't wish to throw away my time and trouble on an
offering you would deem worthless."
He continued to gaze at the picture:  the longer he looked, the
firmer he held it, the more he seemed to covet it.  "It is like!"
he murmured; "the eye is well managed:  the colour, light, expression,
are perfect.  It smiles!"
"Would it comfort, or would it wound you to have a similar painting?
Tell me that.  When you are at Madagascar, or at the Cape, or
in India, would it be a consolation to have that memento in your
possession?  or would the sight of it bring recollections calculated
to enervate and distress?"
