
He now furtively raised his eyes:  he glanced at me, irresolute,
disturbed:  he again surveyed the picture.
"That I should like to have it is certain:  whether it would be
judicious or wise is another question."
Since I had ascertained that Rosamond really preferred him, and that
her father was not likely to oppose the match, I -- less exalted
in my views than St. John -- had been strongly disposed in my
own heart to advocate their union.  It seemed to me that, should
he become the possessor of Mr. Oliver's large fortune, he might
do as much good with it as if he went and laid his genius out to
wither, and his strength to waste, under a tropical sun.  With
this persuasion I now answered -
"As far as I can see, it would be wiser and more judicious if you
were to take to yourself the original at once."
By this time he had sat down:  he had laid the picture on the table
before him, and with his brow supported on both hands, hung fondly
over it.  I discerned he was now neither angry nor shocked at my
audacity.  I saw even that to be thus frankly addressed on a subject
he had deemed unapproachable -- to hear it thus freely handled --
was beginning to be felt by him as a new pleasure -- an unhoped-for
relief.  Reserved people often really need the frank discussion
of their sentiments and griefs more than the expansive.  The
sternest-seeming stoic is human after all; and to "burst" with
boldness and good-will into "the silent sea" of their souls is
often to confer on them the first of obligations.
"She likes you, I am sure," said I, as I stood behind his chair,
"and her father respects you.  Moreover, she is a sweet girl --
rather thoughtless; but you would have sufficient thought for both
yourself and her.  You ought to marry her."
"DOES she like me?"  he asked.
"Certainly; better than she likes any one else.  She talks of you
continually:  there is no subject she enjoys so much or touches
upon so often."
"It is very pleasant to hear this," he said -- "very:  go on for
another quarter of an hour."  And he actually took out his watch
and laid it upon the table to measure the time.
"But where is the use of going on," I asked, "when you are probably
preparing some iron blow of contradiction, or forging a fresh chain
to fetter your heart?"
"Don't imagine such hard things.  Fancy me yielding and melting,
as I am doing:  human love rising like a freshly opened fountain
in my mind and overflowing with sweet inundation all the field I
have so carefully and with such labour prepared -- so assiduously
sown with the seeds of good intentions, of self-denying plans.  And
now it is deluged with a nectarous flood -- the young germs swamped
-- delicious poison cankering them:  now I see myself stretched on
an ottoman in the drawing-room at Vale Hall at my bride Rosamond
Oliver's feet:  she is talking to me with her sweet voice -- gazing
down on me with those eyes your skilful hand has copied so well
-- smiling at me with these coral lips.  She is mine -- I am hers
-- this present life and passing world suffice to me.  Hush!  say
nothing -- my heart is full of delight -- my senses are entranced
-- let the time I marked pass in peace."
I humoured him:  the watch ticked on:  he breathed fast and low:  I
stood silent.  Amidst this hush the quartet sped; he replaced the
watch, laid the picture down, rose, and stood on the hearth.
"Now," said he, "that little space was given to delirium and delusion.
I rested my temples on the breast of temptation, and put my neck
voluntarily under her yoke of flowers.  I tasted her cup.  The
pillow was burning:  there is an asp in the garland:  the wine has
a bitter taste:  her promises are hollow -- her offers false:  I
see and know all this."
I gazed at him in wonder.
"It is strange," pursued he, "that while I love Rosamond Oliver so
wildly -- with all the intensity, indeed, of a first passion, the
object of which is exquisitely beautiful, graceful, fascinating --
I experience at the same time a calm, unwarped consciousness that
she would not make me a good wife; that she is not the partner suited
to me; that I should discover this within a year after marriage;
and that to twelve months' rapture would succeed a lifetime of
regret.  This I know."
"Strange indeed!"  I could not help ejaculating.
"While something in me," he went on, "is acutely sensible to her
charms, something else is as deeply impressed with her defects:  they
are such that she could sympathise in nothing I aspired to -- co-
operate in nothing I undertook.  Rosamond a sufferer, a labourer,
a female apostle?  Rosamond a missionary's wife?  No!"
"But you need not be a missionary.  You might relinquish that
scheme."
"Relinquish!  What!  my vocation?  My great work?  My foundation
laid on earth for a mansion in heaven?  My hopes of being numbered
in the band who have merged all ambitions in the glorious one of
bettering their race -- of carrying knowledge into the realms of
ignorance -- of substituting peace for war -- freedom for bondage
-- religion for superstition -- the hope of heaven for the fear of
hell?  Must I relinquish that?  It is dearer than the blood in my
veins.  It is what I have to look forward to, and to live for."
After a considerable pause, I said -- "And Miss Oliver?  Are her
disappointment and sorrow of no interest to you?"
"Miss Oliver is ever surrounded by suitors and flatterers:  in less
than a month, my image will be effaced from her heart.  She will
forget me; and will marry, probably, some one who will make her
far happier than I should do."
"You speak coolly enough; but you suffer in the conflict.  You are
wasting away."
"No.  If I get a little thin, it is with anxiety about my prospects,
yet unsettled -- my departure, continually procrastinated.  Only
this morning, I received intelligence that the successor, whose
arrival I have been so long expecting, cannot be ready to replace
me for three months to come yet; and perhaps the three months may
extend to six."
"You tremble and become flushed whenever Miss Oliver enters the
schoolroom."
Again the surprised expression crossed his face.  He had not imagined
that a woman would dare to speak so to a man.  For me, I felt at
home in this sort of discourse.  I could never rest in communication
with strong, discreet, and refined minds, whether male or female,
till I had passed the outworks of conventional reserve, and crossed
the threshold of confidence, and won a place by their heart's very
hearthstone.
"You are original," said he, "and not timid.  There is something
brave in your spirit, as well as penetrating in your eye; but allow
me to assure you that you partially misinterpret my emotions.  You
think them more profound and potent than they are.  You give me a
larger allowance of sympathy than I have a just claim to.  When I
colour, and when I shade before Miss Oliver, I do not pity myself.
I scorn the weakness.  I know it is ignoble:  a mere fever of the
flesh:  not, I declare, the convulsion of the soul.  THAT is just
as fixed as a rock, firm set in the depths of a restless sea.  Know
me to be what I am -- a cold hard man."
I smiled incredulously.
"You have taken my confidence by storm," he continued, "and now
it is much at your service.  I am simply, in my original state --
stripped of that blood-bleached robe with which Christianity covers
human deformity -- a cold, hard, ambitious man.  Natural affection
only, of all the sentiments, has permanent power over me.  Reason,
and not feeling, is my guide; my ambition is unlimited:  my desire
to rise higher, to do more than others, insatiable.  I honour
endurance, perseverance, industry, talent; because these are the
means by which men achieve great ends and mount to lofty eminence.
I watch your career with interest, because I consider you a specimen
of a diligent, orderly, energetic woman:  not because I deeply
compassionate what you have gone through, or what you still suffer."
"You would describe yourself as a mere pagan philosopher," I said.
"No.  There is this difference between me and deistic philosophers:
I believe; and I believe the Gospel.  You missed your epithet.  I
am not a pagan, but a Christian philosopher -- a follower of the
sect of Jesus.  As His disciple I adopt His pure, His merciful,
His benignant doctrines.  I advocate them:  I am sworn to spread
them.  Won in youth to religion, she has cultivated my original
qualities thus:- From the minute germ, natural affection, she has
developed the overshadowing tree, philanthropy.  From the wild
stringy root of human uprightness, she has reared a due sense of
the Divine justice.  Of the ambition to win power and renown for
my wretched self, she has formed the ambition to spread my Master's
kingdom; to achieve victories for the standard of the cross.  So
much has religion done for me; turning the original materials to
the best account; pruning and training nature.  But she could not
eradicate nature:  nor will it be eradicated 'till this mortal
shall put on immortality.'"
Having said this, he took his hat, which lay on the table beside
my palette.  Once more he looked at the portrait.
"She IS lovely," he murmured.  "She is well named the Rose of the
World, indeed!"
"And may I not paint one like it for you?"
"CUI BONO? No."
He drew over the picture the sheet of thin paper on which I was
accustomed to rest my hand in painting, to prevent the cardboard
from being sullied.  What he suddenly saw on this blank paper, it
was impossible for me to tell; but something had caught his eye.
He took it up with a snatch; he looked at the edge; then shot a
glance at me, inexpressibly peculiar, and quite incomprehensible:
a glance that seemed to take and make note of every point in
my shape, face, and dress; for it traversed all, quick, keen as
lightning.  His lips parted, as if to speak:  but he checked the
coming sentence, whatever it was.
"What is the matter?"  I asked.
"Nothing in the world," was the reply; and, replacing the paper,
I saw him dexterously tear a narrow slip from the margin.  It
disappeared in his glove; and, with one hasty nod and "good-afternoon,"
he vanished.
"Well!"  I exclaimed, using an expression of the district, "that
caps the globe, however!"
I, in my turn, scrutinised the paper; but saw nothing on it save a
few dingy stains of paint where I had tried the tint in my pencil.
I pondered the mystery a minute or two; but finding it insolvable,
and being certain it could not be of much moment, I dismissed, and
soon forgot it.
CHAPTER XXXIII
When Mr. St. John went, it was beginning to snow; the whirling
storm continued all night.  The next day a keen wind brought fresh
and blinding falls; by twilight the valley was drifted up and almost
impassable.  I had closed my shutter, laid a mat to the door to
prevent the snow from blowing in under it, trimmed my fire, and
after sitting nearly an hour on the hearth listening to the muffled
fury of the tempest, I lit a candle, took down "Marmion," and beginning -
"Day set on Norham's castled steep,
And Tweed's fair river broad and deep,
And Cheviot's mountains lone;
The massive towers, the donjon keep,
The flanking walls that round them sweep,
In yellow lustre shone" -
I soon forgot storm in music.
I heard a noise:  the wind, I thought, shook the door.  No; it was
St. John Rivers, who, lifting the latch, came in out of the frozen
hurricane -- the howling darkness -- and stood before me:  the
cloak that covered his tall figure all white as a glacier.  I was
almost in consternation, so little had I expected any guest from
the blocked-up vale that night.
"Any ill news?"  I demanded.  "Has anything happened?"
