
"Briggs is in London.  I should doubt his knowing anything at all
about Mr. Rochester; it is not in Mr. Rochester he is interested.
Meantime, you forget essential points in pursuing trifles:  you do
not inquire why Mr. Briggs sought after you -- what he wanted with
you."
"Well, what did he want?"
"Merely to tell you that your uncle, Mr. Eyre of Madeira, is dead;
that he has left you all his property, and that you are now rich
-- merely that -- nothing more."
"I! -- rich?"
"Yes, you, rich -- quite an heiress."
Silence succeeded.
"You must prove your identity of course," resumed St. John presently:
"a step which will offer no difficulties; you can then enter on
immediate possession.  Your fortune is vested in the English funds;
Briggs has the will and the necessary documents."
Here was a new card turned up!  It is a fine thing, reader, to be
lifted in a moment from indigence to wealth -- a very fine thing;
but not a matter one can comprehend, or consequently enjoy, all at
once.  And then there are other chances in life far more thrilling
and rapture-giving:  THIS is solid, an affair of the actual world,
nothing ideal about it:  all its associations are solid and sober,
and its manifestations are the same.  One does not jump, and spring,
and shout hurrah!  at hearing one has got a fortune; one begins
to consider responsibilities, and to ponder business; on a base
of steady satisfaction rise certain grave cares, and we contain
ourselves, and brood over our bliss with a solemn brow.
Besides, the words Legacy, Bequest, go side by side with the words,
Death, Funeral.  My uncle I had heard was dead -- my only relative;
ever since being made aware of his existence, I had cherished the
hope of one day seeing him:  now, I never should.  And then this
money came only to me:  not to me and a rejoicing family, but to
my isolated self.  It was a grand boon doubtless; and independence
would be glorious -- yes, I felt that -- that thought swelled my
heart.
"You unbend your forehead at last," said Mr. Rivers.  "I thought
Medusa had looked at you, and that you were turning to stone.
Perhaps now you will ask how much you are worth?"
"How much am I worth?"
"Oh, a trifle!  Nothing of course to speak of -- twenty thousand
pounds, I think they say -- but what is that?"
"Twenty thousand pounds?"
Here was a new stunner -- I had been calculating on four or five
thousand.  This news actually took my breath for a moment:  Mr.
St. John, whom I had never heard laugh before, laughed now.
"Well," said he, "if you had committed a murder, and I had told
you your crime was discovered, you could scarcely look more aghast."
"It is a large sum -- don't you think there is a mistake?"
"No mistake at all."
"Perhaps you have read the figures wrong -- it may be two thousand!"
"It is written in letters, not figures, -- twenty thousand."
I again felt rather like an individual of but average gastronomical
powers sitting down to feast alone at a table spread with provisions
for a hundred.  Mr. Rivers rose now and put his cloak on.
"If it were not such a very wild night," he said, "I would send
Hannah down to keep you company:  you look too desperately miserable
to be left alone.  But Hannah, poor woman!  could not stride the
drifts so well as I: her legs are not quite so long:  so I must
e'en leave you to your sorrows.  Good-night."
He was lifting the latch:  a sudden thought occurred to me.  "Stop
one minute!"  I cried.
"Well?"
"It puzzles me to know why Mr. Briggs wrote to you about me; or how
he knew you, or could fancy that you, living in such an out-of-the-way
place, had the power to aid in my discovery."
"Oh!  I am a clergyman," he said; "and the clergy are often appealed
to about odd matters."  Again the latch rattled.
"No; that does not satisfy me!"  I exclaimed:  and indeed there
was something in the hasty and unexplanatory reply which, instead
of allaying, piqued my curiosity more than ever.
"It is a very strange piece of business," I added; "I must know
more about it."
"Another time."
"No; to-night! -- to-night!"  and as he turned from the door, I
placed myself between it and him.  He looked rather embarrassed.
"You certainly shall not go till you have told me all," I said.
"I would rather not just now."
"You shall! -- you must!"
"I would rather Diana or Mary informed you."
Of course these objections wrought my eagerness to a climax:
gratified it must be, and that without delay; and I told him so.
"But I apprised you that I was a hard man," said he, "difficult to
persuade."
"And I am a hard woman, -- impossible to put off."
"And then," he pursued, "I am cold:  no fervour infects me."
"Whereas I am hot, and fire dissolves ice.  The blaze there has
thawed all the snow from your cloak; by the same token, it has
streamed on to my floor, and made it like a trampled street.  As
you hope ever to be forgiven, Mr. Rivers, the high crime and
misdemeanour of spoiling a sanded kitchen, tell me what I wish to
know."
"Well, then," he said, "I yield; if not to your earnestness, to your
perseverance:  as stone is worn by continual dropping.  Besides,
you must know some day, -- as well now as later.  Your name is Jane
Eyre?"
"Of course:  that was all settled before."
"You are not, perhaps, aware that I am your namesake? -- that I
was christened St. John Eyre Rivers?"
"No, indeed!  I remember now seeing the letter E. comprised in your
initials written in books you have at different times lent me; but
I never asked for what name it stood.  But what then?  Surely -- "
I stopped:  I could not trust myself to entertain, much less to
express, the thought that rushed upon me -- that embodied itself,
-- that, in a second, stood out a strong, solid probability.
Circumstances knit themselves, fitted themselves, shot into order:
the chain that had been lying hitherto a formless lump of links
was drawn out straight, -- every ring was perfect, the connection
complete.  I knew, by instinct, how the matter stood, before St.
John had said another word; but I cannot expect the reader to have
the same intuitive perception, so I must repeat his explanation.
"My mother's name was Eyre; she had two brothers; one a clergyman,
who married Miss Jane Reed, of Gateshead; the other, John Eyre, Esq.,
merchant, late of Funchal, Madeira.  Mr. Briggs, being Mr. Eyre's
solicitor, wrote to us last August to inform us of our uncle's
death, and to say that he had left his property to his brother the
clergyman's orphan daughter, overlooking us, in consequence of a
quarrel, never forgiven, between him and my father.  He wrote again
a few weeks since, to intimate that the heiress was lost, and asking
if we knew anything of her.  A name casually written on a slip of
paper has enabled me to find her out.  You know the rest."  Again
he was going, but I set my back against the door.
"Do let me speak," I said; "let me have one moment to draw breath
and reflect."  I paused -- he stood before me, hat in hand,
looking composed enough.  I resumed -
"Your mother was my father's sister?"
"Yes."
"My aunt, consequently?"
He bowed.
"My uncle John was your uncle John?  You, Diana, and Mary are his
sister's children, as I am his brother's child?"
