
"Undeniably."
"You three, then, are my cousins; half our blood on each side flows
from the same source?"
"We are cousins; yes."
I surveyed him.  It seemed I had found a brother:  one I could be
proud of, -- one I could love; and two sisters, whose qualities
were such, that, when I knew them but as mere strangers, they had
inspired me with genuine affection and admiration.  The two girls,
on whom, kneeling down on the wet ground, and looking through the
low, latticed window of Moor House kitchen, I had gazed with so
bitter a mixture of interest and despair, were my near kinswomen;
and the young and stately gentleman who had found me almost dying
at his threshold was my blood relation.  Glorious discovery to a
lonely wretch!  This was wealth indeed! -- wealth to the heart! --
a mine of pure, genial affections.  This was a blessing, bright,
vivid, and exhilarating; -- not like the ponderous gift of gold:
rich and welcome enough in its way, but sobering from its weight.
I now clapped my hands in sudden joy -- my pulse bounded, my veins
thrilled.
"Oh, I am glad! -- I am glad!"  I exclaimed.
St. John smiled.  "Did I not say you neglected essential points
to pursue trifles?"  he asked.  "You were serious when I told you
you had got a fortune; and now, for a matter of no moment, you are
excited."
"What can you mean?  It may be of no moment to you; you have
sisters and don't care for a cousin; but I had nobody; and now
three relations, -- or two, if you don't choose to be counted, --
are born into my world full-grown.  I say again, I am glad!"
I walked fast through the room:  I stopped, half suffocated with
the thoughts that rose faster than I could receive, comprehend,
settle them:- thoughts of what might, could, would, and should be,
and that ere long.  I looked at the blank wall:  it seemed a sky
thick with ascending stars, -- every one lit me to a purpose or
delight.  Those who had saved my life, whom, till this hour, I had
loved barrenly, I could now benefit.  They were under a yoke, --
I could free them:  they were scattered, -- I could reunite them:
the independence, the affluence which was mine, might be theirs too.
Were we not four?  Twenty thousand pounds shared equally would be
five thousand each, justice -- enough and to spare:  justice would
be done, -- mutual happiness secured.  Now the wealth did not weigh
on me:  now it was not a mere bequest of coin, -- it was a legacy
of life, hope, enjoyment.
How I looked while these ideas were taking my spirit by storm,
I cannot tell; but I perceived soon that Mr. Rivers had placed a
chair behind me, and was gently attempting to make me sit down on
it.  He also advised me to be composed; I scorned the insinuation
of helplessness and distraction, shook off his hand, and began to
walk about again.
"Write to Diana and Mary to-morrow," I said, "and tell them to come
home directly.  Diana said they would both consider themselves rich
with a thousand pounds, so with five thousand they will do very
well."
"Tell me where I can get you a glass of water," said St. John; "you
must really make an effort to tranquillise your feelings."
"Nonsense!  and what sort of an effect will the bequest have on you?
Will it keep you in England, induce you to marry Miss Oliver, and
settle down like an ordinary mortal?"
"You wander:  your head becomes confused.  I have been too abrupt
in communicating the news; it has excited you beyond your strength."
"Mr. Rivers!  you quite put me out of patience:  I am rational enough;
it is you who misunderstand, or rather who affect to misunderstand."
"Perhaps, if you explained yourself a little more fully, I should
comprehend better."
"Explain!  What is there to explain?  You cannot fail to see that
twenty thousand pounds, the sum in question, divided equally between
the nephew and three nieces of our uncle, will give five thousand
to each?  What I want is, that you should write to your sisters
and tell them of the fortune that has accrued to them."
"To you, you mean."
"I have intimated my view of the case:  I am incapable of taking any
other.  I am not brutally selfish, blindly unjust, or fiendishly
ungrateful.  Besides, I am resolved I will have a home and
connections.  I like Moor House, and I will live at Moor House;
I like Diana and Mary, and I will attach myself for life to Diana
and Mary.  It would please and benefit me to have five thousand
pounds; it would torment and oppress me to have twenty thousand;
which, moreover, could never be mine in justice, though it might
in law.  I abandon to you, then, what is absolutely superfluous to
me.  Let there be no opposition, and no discussion about it; let
us agree amongst each other, and decide the point at once."
"This is acting on first impulses; you must take days to consider
such a matter, ere your word can be regarded as valid."
"Oh!  if all you doubt is my sincerity, I am easy:  you see the
justice of the case?"
"I DO see a certain justice; but it is contrary to all custom.
Besides, the entire fortune is your right:  my uncle gained it by
his own efforts; he was free to leave it to whom he would:  he left
it to you.  After all, justice permits you to keep it:  you may,
with a clear conscience, consider it absolutely your own."
"With me," said I, "it is fully as much a matter of feeling as
of conscience:  I must indulge my feelings; I so seldom have had
an opportunity of doing so.  Were you to argue, object, and annoy
me for a year, I could not forego the delicious pleasure of which
I have caught a glimpse -- that of repaying, in part, a mighty
obligation, and winning to myself lifelong friends."
"You think so now," rejoined St. John, "because you do not know
what it is to possess, nor consequently to enjoy wealth:  you
cannot form a notion of the importance twenty thousand pounds would
give you; of the place it would enable you to take in society;
of the prospects it would open to you:  you cannot -- "
"And you," I interrupted, "cannot at all imagine the craving I have
for fraternal and sisterly love.  I never had a home, I never had
brothers or sisters; I must and will have them now:  you are not
reluctant to admit me and own me, are you?"
"Jane, I will be your brother -- my sisters will be your sisters
-- without stipulating for this sacrifice of your just rights."
"Brother?  Yes; at the distance of a thousand leagues!  Sisters?
Yes; slaving amongst strangers!  I, wealthy -- gorged with gold I
never earned and do not merit!  You, penniless!  Famous equality
and fraternisation!  Close union!  Intimate attachment!"
"But, Jane, your aspirations after family ties and domestic happiness
may be realised otherwise than by the means you contemplate:  you
may marry."
"Nonsense, again!  Marry!  I don't want to marry, and never shall
marry."
"That is saying too much:  such hazardous affirmations are a proof
of the excitement under which you labour."
"It is not saying too much:  I know what I feel, and how averse
are my inclinations to the bare thought of marriage.  No one would
take me for love; and I will not be regarded in the light of a mere
money speculation.  And I do not want a stranger -- unsympathising,
alien, different from me; I want my kindred:  those with whom I
have full fellow-feeling.  Say again you will be my brother:  when
you uttered the words I was satisfied, happy; repeat them, if you
can, repeat them sincerely."
"I think I can.  I know I have always loved my own sisters; and
I know on what my affection for them is grounded, -- respect for
their worth and admiration of their talents.  You too have principle
and mind:  your tastes and habits resemble Diana's and Mary's; your
presence is always agreeable to me; in your conversation I have
already for some time found a salutary solace.  I feel I can easily
and naturally make room in my heart for you, as my third and youngest
sister."
"Thank you:  that contents me for to-night.  Now you had better
go; for if you stay longer, you will perhaps irritate me afresh by
some mistrustful scruple."
"And the school, Miss Eyre?  It must now be shut up, I suppose?"
"No.  I will retain my post of mistress till you get a substitute."
He smiled approbation:  we shook hands, and he took leave.
I need not narrate in detail the further struggles I had, and
arguments I used, to get matters regarding the legacy settled as
I wished.  My task was a very hard one; but, as I was absolutely
resolved -- as my cousins saw at length that my mind was really
and immutably fixed on making a just division of the property -- as
they must in their own hearts have felt the equity of the intention;
and must, besides, have been innately conscious that in my place
they would have done precisely what I wished to do -- they yielded
at length so far as to consent to put the affair to arbitration.  The
judges chosen were Mr. Oliver and an able lawyer:  both coincided
in my opinion:  I carried my point.  The instruments of transfer
were drawn out:  St. John, Diana, Mary, and I, each became possessed
of a competency.
CHAPTER XXXIV
It was near Christmas by the time all was settled:  the season of
general holiday approached.  I now closed Morton school, taking care
that the parting should not be barren on my side.  Good fortune
opens the hand as well as the heart wonderfully; and to give
somewhat when we have largely received, is but to afford a vent
to the unusual ebullition of the sensations.  I had long felt with
pleasure that many of my rustic scholars liked me, and when we
parted, that consciousness was confirmed:  they manifested their
affection plainly and strongly.  Deep was my gratification to find
I had really a place in their unsophisticated hearts:  I promised
them that never a week should pass in future that I did not visit
them, and give them an hour's teaching in their school.
Mr. Rivers came up as, having seen the classes, now numbering sixty
girls, file out before me, and locked the door, I stood with the
key in my hand, exchanging a few words of special farewell with some
half-dozen of my best scholars:  as decent, respectable, modest,
and well-informed young women as could be found in the ranks of
the British peasantry.  And that is saying a great deal; for after
all, the British peasantry are the best taught, best mannered, most
self-respecting of any in Europe:  since those days I have seen
paysannes and Bauerinnen; and the best of them seemed to me ignorant,
coarse, and besotted, compared with my Morton girls.
"Do you consider you have got your reward for a season of
exertion?"  asked Mr. Rivers, when they were gone.  "Does not the
consciousness of having done some real good in your day and generation
give pleasure?"
"Doubtless."
"And you have only toiled a few months!  Would not a life devoted
to the task of regenerating your race be well spent?"
"Yes," I said; "but I could not go on for ever so:  I want to enjoy
my own faculties as well as to cultivate those of other people.
I must enjoy them now; don't recall either my mind or body to the
school; I am out of it and disposed for full holiday."
He looked grave.  "What now?  What sudden eagerness is this you
evince?  What are you going to do?"
"To be active:  as active as I can.  And first I must beg you to
set Hannah at liberty, and get somebody else to wait on you."
"Do you want her?"
"Yes, to go with me to Moor House.  Diana and Mary will be at home
in a week, and I want to have everything in order against their
arrival."
