
"The lady who built the new part of this house as that tablet
records, and whose son overlooks and directs everything here."
"Why?"
"Because he is treasurer and manager of the establishment."
"Then this house does not belong to that tall lady who wears a
watch, and who said we were to have some bread and cheese?"
"To Miss Temple?  Oh, no!  I wish it did:  she has to answer to
Mr. Brocklehurst for all she does.  Mr. Brocklehurst buys all our
food and all our clothes."
"Does he live here?"
"No -- two miles off, at a large hall."
"Is he a good man?"
"He is a clergyman, and is said to do a great deal of good."
"Did you say that tall lady was called Miss Temple?"
"Yes."
"And what are the other teachers called?"
"The one with red cheeks is called Miss Smith; she attends to the
work, and cuts out -- for we make our own clothes, our frocks, and
pelisses, and everything; the little one with black hair is Miss
Scatcherd; she teaches history and grammar, and hears the second
class repetitions; and the one who wears a shawl, and has a
pocket-handkerchief tied to her side with a yellow ribband, is Madame
Pierrot:  she comes from Lisle, in France, and teaches French."
"Do you like the teachers?"
"Well enough."
"Do you like the little black one, and the Madame -? -- I cannot
pronounce her name as you do."
"Miss Scatcherd is hasty -- you must take care not to offend her;
Madame Pierrot is not a bad sort of person."
"But Miss Temple is the best -- isn't she?"
"Miss Temple is very good and very clever; she is above the rest,
because she knows far more than they do."
"Have you been long here?"
"Two years."
"Are you an orphan?"
"My mother is dead."
"Are you happy here?"
"You ask rather too many questions.  I have given you answers enough
for the present:  now I want to read."
But at that moment the summons sounded for dinner; all re-entered
the house.  The odour which now filled the refectory was scarcely
more appetising than that which had regaled our nostrils at breakfast:
the dinner was served in two huge tin-plated vessels, whence rose
a strong steam redolent of rancid fat.  I found the mess to consist
of indifferent potatoes and strange shreds of rusty meat, mixed and
cooked together.  Of this preparation a tolerably abundant plateful
was apportioned to each pupil.  I ate what I could, and wondered
within myself whether every day's fare would be like this.
After dinner, we immediately adjourned to the schoolroom:  lessons
recommenced, and were continued till five o'clock.
The only marked event of the afternoon was, that I saw the girl
with whom I had conversed in the verandah dismissed in disgrace
by Miss Scatcherd from a history class, and sent to stand in the
middle of the large schoolroom.  The punishment seemed to me in
a high degree ignominious, especially for so great a girl -- she
looked thirteen or upwards.  I expected she would show signs of
great distress and shame; but to my surprise she neither wept nor
blushed:  composed, though grave, she stood, the central mark of
all eyes.  "How can she bear it so quietly -- so firmly?"  I asked
of myself.  "Were I in her place, it seems to me I should wish the
earth to open and swallow me up.  She looks as if she were thinking
of something beyond her punishment -- beyond her situation:  of
something not round her nor before her.  I have heard of day-dreams
-- is she in a day-dream now?  Her eyes are fixed on the floor,
but I am sure they do not see it -- her sight seems turned in, gone
down into her heart:  she is looking at what she can remember, I
believe; not at what is really present.  I wonder what sort of a
girl she is -- whether good or naughty."
Soon after five p.m.  we had another meal, consisting of a small
mug of coffee, and half-a-slice of brown bread.  I devoured my
bread and drank my coffee with relish; but I should have been glad
of as much more -- I was still hungry.  Half-an-hour's recreation
succeeded, then study; then the glass of water and the piece of
oat-cake, prayers, and bed.  Such was my first day at Lowood.
CHAPTER VI
The next day commenced as before, getting up and dressing by
rushlight; but this morning we were obliged to dispense with the
ceremony of washing; the water in the pitchers was frozen.  A change
had taken place in the weather the preceding evening, and a keen
north-east wind, whistling through the crevices of our bedroom
windows all night long, had made us shiver in our beds, and turned
the contents of the ewers to ice.
Before the long hour and a half of prayers and Bible-reading
was over, I felt ready to perish with cold.  Breakfast-time came
at last, and this morning the porridge was not burnt; the quality
was eatable, the quantity small.  How small my portion seemed!  I
wished it had been doubled.
In the course of the day I was enrolled a member of the fourth class,
and regular tasks and occupations were assigned me:  hitherto, I
had only been a spectator of the proceedings at Lowood; I was now
to become an actor therein.  At first, being little accustomed to
learn by heart, the lessons appeared to me both long and difficult;
the frequent change from task to task, too, bewildered me; and
I was glad when, about three o'clock in the afternoon, Miss Smith
put into my hands a border of muslin two yards long, together with
needle, thimble, &c., and sent me to sit in a quiet corner of the
schoolroom, with directions to hem the same.  At that hour most of
the others were sewing likewise; but one class still stood round
Miss Scatcherd's chair reading, and as all was quiet, the subject
of their lessons could be heard, together with the manner in which
each girl acquitted herself, and the animadversions or commendations
of Miss Scatcherd on the performance.  It was English history:
among the readers I observed my acquaintance of the verandah:  at
the commencement of the lesson, her place had been at the top of
the class, but for some error of pronunciation, or some inattention
to stops, she was suddenly sent to the very bottom.  Even in that
obscure position, Miss Scatcherd continued to make her an object
of constant notice:  she was continually addressing to her such
phrases as the following:-
"Burns" (such it seems was her name:  the girls here were all
called by their surnames, as boys are elsewhere), "Burns, you are
standing on the side of your shoe; turn your toes out immediately."
"Burns, you poke your chin most unpleasantly; draw it in."  "Burns,
I insist on your holding your head up; I will not have you before
me in that attitude," &c.  &c.
A chapter having been read through twice, the books were closed
and the girls examined.  The lesson had comprised part of the reign
of Charles I., and there were sundry questions about tonnage and
poundage and ship-money, which most of them appeared unable to
answer; still, every little difficulty was solved instantly when
it reached Burns:  her memory seemed to have retained the substance
of the whole lesson, and she was ready with answers on every point.
I kept expecting that Miss Scatcherd would praise her attention;
but, instead of that, she suddenly cried out -
"You dirty, disagreeable girl!  you have never cleaned your nails
this morning!"
Burns made no answer:  I wondered at her silence.  "Why," thought
I, "does she not explain that she could neither clean her nails
nor wash her face, as the water was frozen?"
My attention was now called off by Miss Smith desiring me to hold a
skein of thread:  while she was winding it, she talked to me from
time to time, asking whether I had ever been at school before,
whether I could mark, stitch, knit, &c.; till she dismissed me,
I could not pursue my observations on Miss Scatcherd's movements.
When I returned to my seat, that lady was just delivering an order
of which I did not catch the import; but Burns immediately left
the class, and going into the small inner room where the books were
kept, returned in half a minute, carrying in her hand a bundle of
twigs tied together at one end.  This ominous tool she presented
to Miss Scatcherd with a respectful curtesy; then she quietly, and
without being told, unloosed her pinafore, and the teacher instantly
and sharply inflicted on her neck a dozen strokes with the bunch
of twigs.  Not a tear rose to Burns' eye; and, while I paused from
my sewing, because my fingers quivered at this spectacle with a
sentiment of unavailing and impotent anger, not a feature of her
pensive face altered its ordinary expression.
"Hardened girl!"  exclaimed Miss Scatcherd; "nothing can correct
you of your slatternly habits:  carry the rod away."
Burns obeyed:  I looked at her narrowly as she emerged from the
book-closet; she was just putting back her handkerchief into her
pocket, and the trace of a tear glistened on her thin cheek.
The play-hour in the evening I thought the pleasantest fraction
of the day at Lowood:  the bit of bread, the draught of coffee
swallowed at five o'clock had revived vitality, if it had not
satisfied hunger:  the long restraint of the day was slackened;
the schoolroom felt warmer than in the morning -- its fires being
allowed to burn a little more brightly, to supply, in some measure,
the place of candles, not yet introduced:  the ruddy gloaming, the
licensed uproar, the confusion of many voices gave one a welcome
sense of liberty.
On the evening of the day on which I had seen Miss Scatcherd flog
her pupil, Burns, I wandered as usual among the forms and tables
and laughing groups without a companion, yet not feeling lonely:
when I passed the windows, I now and then lifted a blind, and looked
out; it snowed fast, a drift was already forming against the lower
panes; putting my ear close to the window, I could distinguish from
the gleeful tumult within, the disconsolate moan of the wind outside.
Probably, if I had lately left a good home and kind parents, this
would have been the hour when I should most keenly have regretted
the separation; that wind would then have saddened my heart; this
obscure chaos would have disturbed my peace!  as it was, I derived
from both a strange excitement, and reckless and feverish, I wished
the wind to howl more wildly, the gloom to deepen to darkness, and
the confusion to rise to clamour.
Jumping over forms, and creeping under tables, I made my way to
one of the fire-places; there, kneeling by the high wire fender,
I found Burns, absorbed, silent, abstracted from all round her by
the companionship of a book, which she read by the dim glare of
the embers.
"Is it still 'Rasselas'?"  I asked, coming behind her.
"Yes," she said, "and I have just finished it."
And in five minutes more she shut it up.  I was glad of this.
"Now," thought I, "I can perhaps get her to talk."  I sat down by
her on the floor.
