
"Learning German."
"I want you to give up German and learn Hindostanee."
"You are not in earnest?"
"In such earnest that I must have it so:  and I will tell you why."
He then went on to explain that Hindostanee was the language he
was himself at present studying; that, as he advanced, he was apt
to forget the commencement; that it would assist him greatly to have
a pupil with whom he might again and again go over the elements,
and so fix them thoroughly in his mind; that his choice had hovered
for some time between me and his sisters; but that he had fixed on
me because he saw I could sit at a task the longest of the three.
Would I do him this favour?  I should not, perhaps, have to make
the sacrifice long, as it wanted now barely three months to his
departure.
St. John was not a man to be lightly refused:  you felt that every
impression made on him, either for pain or pleasure, was deep-graved and
permanent.  I consented.  When Diana and Mary returned, the former
found her scholar transferred from her to her brother:  she
laughed, and both she and Mary agreed that St. John should
never have persuaded them to such a step.  He answered quietly -
"I know it."
I found him a very patient, very forbearing, and yet an exacting
master:  he expected me to do a great deal; and when I fulfilled his
expectations, he, in his own way, fully testified his approbation.
By degrees, he acquired a certain influence over me that took away
my liberty of mind:  his praise and notice were more restraining
than his indifference.  I could no longer talk or laugh freely when
he was by, because a tiresomely importunate instinct reminded me
that vivacity (at least in me) was distasteful to him.  I was so
fully aware that only serious moods and occupations were acceptable,
that in his presence every effort to sustain or follow any other
became vain:  I fell under a freezing spell.  When he said "go," I
went; "come," I came; "do this," I did it.  But I did not love my
servitude:  I wished, many a time, he had continued to neglect me.
One evening when, at bedtime, his sisters and I stood round him,
bidding him good-night, he kissed each of them, as was his custom;
and, as was equally his custom, he gave me his hand.  Diana, who
chanced to be in a frolicsome humour (SHE was not painfully controlled
by his will; for hers, in another way, was as strong), exclaimed -
"St. John!  you used to call Jane your third sister, but you don't
treat her as such:  you should kiss her too."
She pushed me towards him.  I thought Diana very provoking, and felt
uncomfortably confused; and while I was thus thinking and feeling,
St. John bent his head; his Greek face was brought to a level with
mine, his eyes questioned my eyes piercingly -- he kissed me.  There
are no such things as marble kisses or ice kisses, or I should say
my ecclesiastical cousin's salute belonged to one of these classes;
but there may be experiment kisses, and his was an experiment kiss.
When given, he viewed me to learn the result; it was not striking:
I am sure I did not blush; perhaps I might have turned a little
pale, for I felt as if this kiss were a seal affixed to my fetters.
He never omitted the ceremony afterwards, and the gravity and
quiescence with which I underwent it, seemed to invest it for him
with a certain charm.
As for me, I daily wished more to please him; but to do so, I felt
daily more and more that I must disown half my nature, stifle half
my faculties, wrest my tastes from their original bent, force myself
to the adoption of pursuits for which I had no natural vocation.  He
wanted to train me to an elevation I could never reach; it racked
me hourly to aspire to the standard he uplifted.  The thing was
as impossible as to mould my irregular features to his correct and
classic pattern, to give to my changeable green eyes the sea-blue
tint and solemn lustre of his own.
Not his ascendancy alone, however, held me in thrall at present.
Of late it had been easy enough for me to look sad:  a cankering
evil sat at my heart and drained my happiness at its source -- the
evil of suspense.
Perhaps you think I had forgotten Mr. Rochester, reader, amidst
these changes of place and fortune.  Not for a moment.  His idea
was still with me, because it was not a vapour sunshine could
disperse, nor a sand-traced effigy storms could wash away; it was
a name graven on a tablet, fated to last as long as the marble it
inscribed.  The craving to know what had become of him followed
me everywhere; when I was at Morton, I re-entered my cottage every
evening to think of that; and now at Moor House, I sought my bedroom
each night to brood over it.
In the course of my necessary correspondence with Mr. Briggs about
the will, I had inquired if he knew anything of Mr. Rochester's present
residence and state of health; but, as St. John had conjectured,
he was quite ignorant of all concerning him.  I then wrote to Mrs.
Fairfax, entreating information on the subject.  I had calculated
with certainty on this step answering my end:  I felt sure it would
elicit an early answer.  I was astonished when a fortnight passed
without reply; but when two months wore away, and day after day
the post arrived and brought nothing for me, I fell a prey to the
keenest anxiety.
I wrote again:  there was a chance of my first letter having
missed.  Renewed hope followed renewed effort:  it shone like the
former for some weeks, then, like it, it faded, flickered:  not
a line, not a word reached me.  When half a year wasted in vain
expectancy, my hope died out, and then I felt dark indeed.
A fine spring shone round me, which I could not enjoy.  Summer
approached; Diana tried to cheer me:  she said I looked ill, and
wished to accompany me to the sea-side.  This St. John opposed; he
said I did not want dissipation, I wanted employment; my present
life was too purposeless, I required an aim; and, I suppose, by way
of supplying deficiencies, he prolonged still further my lessons in
Hindostanee, and grew more urgent in requiring their accomplishment:
and I, like a fool, never thought of resisting him -- I could not
resist him.
One day I had come to my studies in lower spirits than usual; the
ebb was occasioned by a poignantly felt disappointment.  Hannah had
told me in the morning there was a letter for me, and when I went
down to take it, almost certain that the long-looked for tidings
were vouchsafed me at last, I found only an unimportant note from
Mr. Briggs on business.  The bitter check had wrung from me some
tears; and now, as I sat poring over the crabbed characters and
flourishing tropes of an Indian scribe, my eyes filled again.
St. John called me to his side to read; in attempting to do this
my voice failed me:  words were lost in sobs.  He and I were the
only occupants of the parlour:  Diana was practising her music in
the drawing-room, Mary was gardening -- it was a very fine May day,
clear, sunny, and breezy.  My companion expressed no surprise at
this emotion, nor did he question me as to its cause; he only said -
"We will wait a few minutes, Jane, till you are more composed."
And while I smothered the paroxysm with all haste, he sat calm and
patient, leaning on his desk, and looking like a physician watching
with the eye of science an expected and fully understood crisis
in a patient's malady.  Having stifled my sobs, wiped my eyes,
and muttered something about not being very well that morning, I
resumed my task, and succeeded in completing it.  St. John
put away my books and his, locked his desk, and said -
"Now, Jane, you shall take a walk; and with me."
"I will call Diana and Mary."
"No; I want only one companion this morning, and that must be you.
Put on your things; go out by the kitchen-door:  take the road
towards the head of Marsh Glen:  I will join you in a moment."
I know no medium:  I never in my life have known any medium in my
dealings with positive, hard characters, antagonistic to my own,
between absolute submission and determined revolt.  I have always
faithfully observed the one, up to the very moment of bursting,
sometimes with volcanic vehemence, into the other; and as neither
present circumstances warranted, nor my present mood inclined me
to mutiny, I observed careful obedience to St. John's directions;
and in ten minutes I was treading the wild track of the glen, side
by side with him.
The breeze was from the west:  it came over the hills, sweet with
scents of heath and rush; the sky was of stainless blue; the stream
descending the ravine, swelled with past spring rains, poured
along plentiful and clear, catching golden gleams from the sun,
and sapphire tints from the firmament.  As we advanced and left the
track, we trod a soft turf, mossy fine and emerald green, minutely
enamelled with a tiny white flower, and spangled with a star-like
yellow blossom:  the hills, meantime, shut us quite in; for the
glen, towards its head, wound to their very core.
"Let us rest here," said St. John, as we reached the first stragglers
of a battalion of rocks, guarding a sort of pass, beyond which the
beck rushed down a waterfall; and where, still a little farther,
the mountain shook off turf and flower, had only heath for raiment
and crag for gem -- where it exaggerated the wild to the savage,
and exchanged the fresh for the frowning -- where it guarded the
forlorn hope of solitude, and a last refuge for silence.
I took a seat:  St. John stood near me.  He looked up the pass
and down the hollow; his glance wandered away with the stream, and
returned to traverse the unclouded heaven which coloured it:  he
removed his hat, let the breeze stir his hair and kiss his brow.
He seemed in communion with the genius of the haunt:  with his eye
he bade farewell to something.
"And I shall see it again," he said aloud, "in dreams when I sleep
by the Ganges:  and again in a more remote hour -- when another
slumber overcomes me -- on the shore of a darker stream!"
Strange words of a strange love!  An austere patriot's passion
for his fatherland!  He sat down; for half-an-hour we never spoke;
neither he to me nor I to him:  that interval past, he recommenced -
"Jane, I go in six weeks; I have taken my berth in an East Indiaman
which sails on the 20th of June."
"God will protect you; for you have undertaken His work," I answered.
"Yes," said he, "there is my glory and joy.  I am the servant of
an infallible Master.  I am not going out under human guidance,
subject to the defective laws and erring control of my feeble
fellow-worms:  my king, my lawgiver, my captain, is the All-perfect.
It seems strange to me that all round me do not burn to enlist
under the same banner, -- to join in the same enterprise."
"All have not your powers, and it would be folly for the feeble to
wish to march with the strong."
"I do not speak to the feeble, or think of them:  I address only
such as are worthy of the work, and competent to accomplish it."
"Those are few in number, and difficult to discover."
"You say truly; but when found, it is right to stir them up -- to
urge and exhort them to the effort -- to show them what their gifts
are, and why they were given -- to speak Heaven's message in their
ear, -- to offer them, direct from God, a place in the ranks of
His chosen."
"If they are really qualified for the task, will not their own
hearts be the first to inform them of it?"
I felt as if an awful charm was framing round and gathering over
me:  I trembled to hear some fatal word spoken which would at once
declare and rivet the spell.
"And what does YOUR heart say?"  demanded St. John.
"My heart is mute, -- my heart is mute," I answered, struck and
thrilled.
"Then I must speak for it," continued the deep, relentless voice.
"Jane, come with me to India:  come as my helpmeet and fellow-labourer."
The glen and sky spun round:  the hills heaved!  It was as if I had
heard a summons from Heaven -- as if a visionary messenger, like
him of Macedonia, had enounced, "Come over and help us!"  But I
was no apostle, -- I could not behold the herald, -- I could not
receive his call.
"Oh, St. John!"  I cried, "have some mercy!"
I appealed to one who, in the discharge of what he believed
his duty, knew neither mercy nor remorse.  He continued -
"God and nature intended you for a missionary's wife.  It is
not personal, but mental endowments they have given you:  you are
formed for labour, not for love.  A missionary's wife you must --
shall be.  You shall be mine:  I claim you -- not for my pleasure,
but for my Sovereign's service."
"I am not fit for it:  I have no vocation," I said.
He had calculated on these first objections:  he was not irritated
by them.  Indeed, as he leaned back against the crag behind him,
folded his arms on his chest, and fixed his countenance, I saw he
was prepared for a long and trying opposition, and had taken in a
stock of patience to last him to its close -- resolved, however,
that that close should be conquest for him.
"Humility, Jane," said he, "is the groundwork of Christian virtues:
you say right that you are not fit for the work.  Who is fit for
it?  Or who, that ever was truly called, believed himself worthy
of the summons?  I, for instance, am but dust and ashes.  With St.
Paul, I acknowledge myself the chiefest of sinners; but I do not
suffer this sense of my personal vileness to daunt me.  I know
my Leader:  that He is just as well as mighty; and while He has
chosen a feeble instrument to perform a great task, He will, from
the boundless stores of His providence, supply the inadequacy of
the means to the end.  Think like me, Jane -- trust like me.  It
is the Rock of Ages I ask you to lean on:  do not doubt but it will
bear the weight of your human weakness."
"I do not understand a missionary life:  I have never studied
missionary labours."
"There I, humble as I am, can give you the aid you want:  I can
set you your task from hour to hour; stand by you always; help you
from moment to moment.  This I could do in the beginning:  soon
(for I know your powers) you would be as strong and apt as myself,
and would not require my help."
