
"But my powers -- where are they for this undertaking?  I do not
feel them.  Nothing speaks or stirs in me while you talk.  I am
sensible of no light kindling -- no life quickening -- no voice
counselling or cheering.  Oh, I wish I could make you see how much
my mind is at this moment like a rayless dungeon, with one shrinking
fear fettered in its depths -- the fear of being persuaded by you
to attempt what I cannot accomplish!"
"I have an answer for you -- hear it.  I have watched you ever
since we first met:  I have made you my study for ten months.  I
have proved you in that time by sundry tests:  and what have I
seen and elicited?  In the village school I found you could perform
well, punctually, uprightly, labour uncongenial to your habits and
inclinations; I saw you could perform it with capacity and tact:
you could win while you controlled.  In the calm with which you
learnt you had become suddenly rich, I read a mind clear of the
vice of Demas:- lucre had no undue power over you.  In the resolute
readiness with which you cut your wealth into four shares, keeping
but one to yourself, and relinquishing the three others to the
claim of abstract justice, I recognised a soul that revelled in
the flame and excitement of sacrifice.  In the tractability with
which, at my wish, you forsook a study in which you were interested,
and adopted another because it interested me; in the untiring assiduity
with which you have since persevered in it -- in the unflagging
energy and unshaken temper with which you have met its difficulties
-- I acknowledge the complement of the qualities I seek.  Jane,
you are docile, diligent, disinterested, faithful, constant,
and courageous; very gentle, and very heroic:  cease to mistrust
yourself -- I can trust you unreservedly.  As a conductress of
Indian schools, and a helper amongst Indian women, your assistance
will be to me invaluable."
My iron shroud contracted round me; persuasion advanced with
slow sure step.  Shut my eyes as I would, these last words of his
succeeded in making the way, which had seemed blocked up, comparatively
clear.  My work, which had appeared so vague, so hopelessly diffuse,
condensed itself as he proceeded, and assumed a definite form under
his shaping hand.  He waited for an answer.  I demanded a quarter
of an hour to think, before I again hazarded a reply.
"Very willingly," he rejoined; and rising, he strode a little
distance up the pass, threw himself down on a swell of heath, and
there lay still.
"I CAN do what he wants me to do:  I am forced to see and acknowledge
that," I meditated, -- "that is, if life be spared me.  But I feel
mine is not the existence to be long protracted under an Indian
sun.  What then?  He does not care for that:  when my time came to
die, he would resign me, in all serenity and sanctity, to the God
who gave me.  The case is very plain before me.  In leaving England,
I should leave a loved but empty land -- Mr. Rochester is not there;
and if he were, what is, what can that ever be to me?  My business
is to live without him now:  nothing so absurd, so weak as to drag
on from day to day, as if I were waiting some impossible change in
circumstances, which might reunite me to him.  Of course (as St.
John once said) I must seek another interest in life to replace the
one lost:  is not the occupation he now offers me truly the most
glorious man can adopt or God assign?  Is it not, by its noble cares
and sublime results, the one best calculated to fill the void left
by uptorn affections and demolished hopes?  I believe I must say,
Yes -- and yet I shudder.  Alas!  If I join St. John, I abandon
half myself:  if I go to India, I go to premature death.  And how
will the interval between leaving England for India, and India for
the grave, be filled?  Oh, I know well!  That, too, is very clear
to my vision.  By straining to satisfy St. John till my sinews ache,
I SHALL satisfy him -- to the finest central point and farthest
outward circle of his expectations.  If I DO go with him -- if I
DO make the sacrifice he urges, I will make it absolutely:  I will
throw all on the altar -- heart, vitals, the entire victim.  He will
never love me; but he shall approve me; I will show him energies
he has not yet seen, resources he has never suspected.  Yes, I can
work as hard as he can, and with as little grudging.
"Consent, then, to his demand is possible:  but for one item --
one dreadful item.  It is -- that he asks me to be his wife, and
has no more of a husband's heart for me than that frowning giant
of a rock, down which the stream is foaming in yonder gorge.  He
prizes me as a soldier would a good weapon; and that is all.
Unmarried to him, this would never grieve me; but can I let him
complete his calculations -- coolly put into practice his plans --
go through the wedding ceremony?  Can I receive from him the bridal
ring, endure all the forms of love (which I doubt not he would
scrupulously observe) and know that the spirit was quite absent?
Can I bear the consciousness that every endearment he bestows
is a sacrifice made on principle?  No:  such a martyrdom would
be monstrous.  I will never undergo it.  As his sister, I might
accompany him -- not as his wife:  I will tell him so."
I looked towards the knoll:  there he lay, still as a prostrate
column; his face turned to me:  his eye beaming watchful and keen.
He started to his feet and approached me.
"I am ready to go to India, if I may go free."
"Your answer requires a commentary," he said; "it is not clear."
"You have hitherto been my adopted brother -- I, your adopted
sister:  let us continue as such:  you and I had better not marry."
He shook his head.  "Adopted fraternity will not do in this case.
If you were my real sister it would be different:  I should take
you, and seek no wife.  But as it is, either our union must be
consecrated and sealed by marriage, or it cannot exist:  practical
obstacles oppose themselves to any other plan.  Do you not see it,
Jane?  Consider a moment -- your strong sense will guide you."
I did consider; and still my sense, such as it was, directed me
only to the fact that we did not love each other as man and wife
should:  and therefore it inferred we ought not to marry.  I said
so.  "St. John," I returned, "I regard you as a brother -- you, me
as a sister:  so let us continue."
"We cannot -- we cannot," he answered, with short, sharp
determination:  "it would not do.  You have said you will go with
me to India:  remember -- you have said that."
"Conditionally."
"Well -- well.  To the main point -- the departure with me from
England, the co-operation with me in my future labours -- you do not
object.  You have already as good as put your hand to the plough:
you are too consistent to withdraw it.  You have but one end to
keep in view -- how the work you have undertaken can best be done.
Simplify your complicated interests, feelings, thoughts, wishes,
aims; merge all considerations in one purpose:  that of fulfilling
with effect -- with power -- the mission of your great Master.  To
do so, you must have a coadjutor:  not a brother -- that is a loose
tie -- but a husband.  I, too, do not want a sister:  a sister
might any day be taken from me.  I want a wife:  the sole helpmeet
I can influence efficiently in life, and retain absolutely till
death."
I shuddered as he spoke:  I felt his influence in my marrow -- his
hold on my limbs.
"Seek one elsewhere than in me, St. John:  seek one fitted to you."
"One fitted to my purpose, you mean -- fitted to my vocation.  Again
I tell you it is not the insignificant private individual -- the
mere man, with the man's selfish senses -- I wish to mate:  it is
the missionary."
"And I will give the missionary my energies -- it is all he wants
-- but not myself:  that would be only adding the husk and shell
to the kernel.  For them he has no use:  I retain them."
"You cannot -- you ought not.  Do you think God will be satisfied
with half an oblation?  Will He accept a mutilated sacrifice?  It
is the cause of God I advocate:  it is under His standard I enlist
you.  I cannot accept on His behalf a divided allegiance:  it must
be entire."
"Oh!  I will give my heart to God," I said.  "YOU do not want it."
I will not swear, reader, that there was not something of repressed
sarcasm both in the tone in which I uttered this sentence, and in
the feeling that accompanied it.  I had silently feared St. John
till now, because I had not understood him.  He had held me in
awe, because he had held me in doubt.  How much of him was saint,
how much mortal, I could not heretofore tell:  but revelations
were being made in this conference:  the analysis of his nature was
proceeding before my eyes.  I saw his fallibilities:  I comprehended
them.  I understood that, sitting there where I did, on the bank
of heath, and with that handsome form before me, I sat at the feet
of a man, caring as I. The veil fell from his hardness and despotism.
Having felt in him the presence of these qualities, I felt his
imperfection and took courage.  I was with an equal -- one with
whom I might argue -- one whom, if I saw good, I might resist.
He was silent after I had uttered the last sentence, and I presently
risked an upward glance at his countenance.
His eye, bent on me, expressed at once stern surprise and keen
inquiry.  "Is she sarcastic, and sarcastic to ME!" it seemed to
say.  "What does this signify?"
"Do not let us forget that this is a solemn matter," he said ere
long; "one of which we may neither think nor talk lightly without
sin.  I trust, Jane, you are in earnest when you say you will serve
your heart to God:  it is all I want.  Once wrench your heart from
man, and fix it on your Maker, the advancement of that Maker's
spiritual kingdom on earth will be your chief delight and endeavour;
you will be ready to do at once whatever furthers that end.  You
will see what impetus would be given to your efforts and mine by
our physical and mental union in marriage:  the only union that
gives a character of permanent conformity to the destinies and
designs of human beings; and, passing over all minor caprices --
all trivial difficulties and delicacies of feeling -- all scruple
about the degree, kind, strength or tenderness of mere personal
inclination -- you will hasten to enter into that union at once."
"Shall I?" I said briefly; and I looked at his features, beautiful
in their harmony, but strangely formidable in their still severity;
at his brow, commanding but not open; at his eyes, bright and deep
and searching, but never soft; at his tall imposing figure; and
fancied myself in idea HIS WIFE. Oh!  it would never do!  As his
curate, his comrade, all would be right:  I would cross oceans with
him in that capacity; toil under Eastern suns, in Asian deserts with
him in that office; admire and emulate his courage and devotion and
vigour; accommodate quietly to his masterhood; smile undisturbed
at his ineradicable ambition; discriminate the Christian from the
man:  profoundly esteem the one, and freely forgive the other.  I
should suffer often, no doubt, attached to him only in this capacity:
my body would be under rather a stringent yoke, but my heart and
mind would be free.  I should still have my unblighted self to turn
to:  my natural unenslaved feelings with which to communicate in
moments of loneliness.  There would be recesses in my mind which
would be only mine, to which he never came, and sentiments growing
there fresh and sheltered which his austerity could never blight,
nor his measured warrior-march trample down:  but as his wife --
at his side always, and always restrained, and always checked --
forced to keep the fire of my nature continually low, to compel
it to burn inwardly and never utter a cry, though the imprisoned
flame consumed vital after vital -- THIS would be unendurable.
"St. John!"  I exclaimed, when I had got so far in my meditation.
"Well?"  he answered icily.
"I repeat I freely consent to go with you as your fellow-missionary,
but not as your wife; I cannot marry you and become part of you."
"A part of me you must become," he answered steadily; "otherwise
the whole bargain is void.  How can I, a man not yet thirty, take
out with me to India a girl of nineteen, unless she be married to
me?  How can we be for ever together -- sometimes in solitudes,
sometimes amidst savage tribes -- and unwed?"
"Very well," I said shortly; "under the circumstances, quite as
well as if I were either your real sister, or a man and a clergyman
like yourself."
"It is known that you are not my sister; I cannot introduce you as
such:  to attempt it would be to fasten injurious suspicions on us
both.  And for the rest, though you have a man's vigorous brain,
you have a woman's heart and -- it would not do."
"It would do," I affirmed with some disdain, "perfectly well.  I
have a woman's heart, but not where you are concerned; for you
I have only a comrade's constancy; a fellow-soldier's frankness,
fidelity, fraternity, if you like; a neophyte's respect and submission
to his hierophant:  nothing more -- don't fear."
"It is what I want," he said, speaking to himself; "it is just what
I want.  And there are obstacles in the way:  they must be hewn
down.  Jane, you would not repent marrying me -- be certain of
that; we MUST be married.  I repeat it:  there is no other way;
and undoubtedly enough of love would follow upon marriage to render
the union right even in your eyes."
"I scorn your idea of love," I could not help saying, as I rose up
and stood before him, leaning my back against the rock.  "I scorn
the counterfeit sentiment you offer:  yes, St. John, and I scorn
you when you offer it."
He looked at me fixedly, compressing his well-cut lips while he
did so.  Whether he was incensed or surprised, or what, it was not
easy to tell:  he could command his countenance thoroughly.
"I scarcely expected to hear that expression from you," he said:
"I think I have done and uttered nothing to deserve scorn."
I was touched by his gentle tone, and overawed by his high, calm
mien.
"Forgive me the words, St. John; but it is your own fault that
I have been roused to speak so unguardedly.  You have introduced
a topic on which our natures are at variance -- a topic we should
never discuss:  the very name of love is an apple of discord between
us.  If the reality were required, what should we do?  How should
we feel?  My dear cousin, abandon your scheme of marriage -- forget
it."
"No," said he; "it is a long-cherished scheme, and the only one
which can secure my great end:  but I shall urge you no further
at present.  To-morrow, I leave home for Cambridge:  I have many
friends there to whom I should wish to say farewell.  I shall be
absent a fortnight -- take that space of time to consider my offer:
and do not forget that if you reject it, it is not me you deny,
but God.  Through my means, He opens to you a noble career; as my
wife only can you enter upon it.  Refuse to be my wife, and you limit
yourself for ever to a track of selfish ease and barren obscurity.
Tremble lest in that case you should be numbered with those who
have denied the faith, and are worse than infidels!"
He had done.  Turning from me, he once more
"Looked to river, looked to hill."
But this time his feelings were all pent in his heart:  I was not
worthy to hear them uttered.  As I walked by his side homeward,
I read well in his iron silence all he felt towards me:  the
disappointment of an austere and despotic nature, which has met
resistance where it expected submission -- the disapprobation of a
cool, inflexible judgment, which has detected in another feelings
and views in which it has no power to sympathise:  in short, as a
man, he would have wished to coerce me into obedience:  it was only
as a sincere Christian he bore so patiently with my perversity,
and allowed so long a space for reflection and repentance.
That night, after he had kissed his sisters, he thought proper to
forget even to shake hands with me, but left the room in silence.
I -- who, though I had no love, had much friendship for him -- was
hurt by the marked omission:  so much hurt that tears started to
my eyes.
"I see you and St. John have been quarrelling, Jane," said Diana,
"during your walk on the moor.  But go after him; he is now lingering
in the passage expecting you -- he will make it up."
I have not much pride under such circumstances:  I would always
rather be happy than dignified; and I ran after him -- he stood at
the foot of the stairs.
"Good-night, St. John," said I.
"Good-night, Jane," he replied calmly.
"Then shake hands," I added.
What a cold, loose touch, he impressed on my fingers!  He was
deeply displeased by what had occurred that day; cordiality would
not warm, nor tears move him.  No happy reconciliation was to
be had with him -- no cheering smile or generous word:  but still
the Christian was patient and placid; and when I asked him if he
forgave me, he answered that he was not in the habit of cherishing
the remembrance of vexation; that he had nothing to forgive, not
having been offended.
