
And with that answer he left me.  I would much rather he had knocked
me down.
CHAPTER XXXV
He did not leave for Cambridge the next day, as he had said he
would.  He deferred his departure a whole week, and during that
time he made me feel what severe punishment a good yet stern, a
conscientious yet implacable man can inflict on one who has offended
him.  Without one overt act of hostility, one upbraiding word, he
contrived to impress me momently with the conviction that I was
put beyond the pale of his favour.
Not that St. John harboured a spirit of unchristian vindictiveness
-- not that he would have injured a hair of my head, if it had been
fully in his power to do so.  Both by nature and principle, he was
superior to the mean gratification of vengeance:  he had forgiven
me for saying I scorned him and his love, but he had not forgotten
the words; and as long as he and I lived he never would forget
them.  I saw by his look, when he turned to me, that they were
always written on the air between me and him; whenever I spoke, they
sounded in my voice to his ear, and their echo toned every answer
he gave me.
He did not abstain from conversing with me:  he even called me as
usual each morning to join him at his desk; and I fear the corrupt
man within him had a pleasure unimparted to, and unshared by, the
pure Christian, in evincing with what skill he could, while acting
and speaking apparently just as usual, extract from every deed and
every phrase the spirit of interest and approval which had formerly
communicated a certain austere charm to his language and manner.
To me, he was in reality become no longer flesh, but marble; his
eye was a cold, bright, blue gem; his tongue a speaking instrument
-- nothing more.
All this was torture to me -- refined, lingering torture.  It kept
up a slow fire of indignation and a trembling trouble of grief,
which harassed and crushed me altogether.  I felt how -- if I were
his wife, this good man, pure as the deep sunless source, could soon
kill me, without drawing from my veins a single drop of blood, or
receiving on his own crystal conscience the faintest stain of crime.
Especially I felt this when I made any attempt to propitiate him.
No ruth met my ruth.  HE experienced no suffering from estrangement
-- no yearning after reconciliation; and though, more than once,
my fast falling tears blistered the page over which we both bent,
they produced no more effect on him than if his heart had been
really a matter of stone or metal.  To his sisters, meantime, he
was somewhat kinder than usual:  as if afraid that mere coldness
would not sufficiently convince me how completely I was banished
and banned, he added the force of contrast; and this I am sure he
did not by force, but on principle.
The night before he left home, happening to see him walking in the
garden about sunset, and remembering, as I looked at him, that this
man, alienated as he now was, had once saved my life, and that we
were near relations, I was moved to make a last attempt to regain
his friendship.  I went out and approached him as he stood leaning
over the little gate; I spoke to the point at once.
"St. John, I am unhappy because you are still angry with me.  Let
us be friends."
"I hope we are friends," was the unmoved reply; while he still
watched the rising of the moon, which he had been contemplating as
I approached.
"No, St. John, we are not friends as we were.  You know that."
"Are we not?  That is wrong.  For my part, I wish you no ill and
all good."
"I believe you, St. John; for I am sure you are incapable of wishing
any one ill; but, as I am your kinswoman, I should desire somewhat
more of affection than that sort of general philanthropy you extend
to mere strangers."
"Of course," he said.  "Your wish is reasonable, and I am far from
regarding you as a stranger."
This, spoken in a cool, tranquil tone, was mortifying and baffling
enough.  Had I attended to the suggestions of pride and ire, I
should immediately have left him; but something worked within me
more strongly than those feelings could.  I deeply venerated my
cousin's talent and principle.  His friendship was of value to me:
to lose it tried me severely.  I would not so soon relinquish the
attempt to reconquer it.
"Must we part in this way, St. John?  And when you go to India, will
you leave me so, without a kinder word than you have yet spoken?"
He now turned quite from the moon and faced me.
"When I go to India, Jane, will I leave you!  What!  do you not go
to India?"
"You said I could not unless I married you."
"And you will not marry me!  You adhere to that resolution?"
Reader, do you know, as I do, what terror those cold people can
put into the ice of their questions?  How much of the fall of the
avalanche is in their anger?  of the breaking up of the frozen sea
in their displeasure?
"No.  St. John, I will not marry you.  I adhere to my resolution."
The avalanche had shaken and slid a little forward, but it did not
yet crash down.
"Once more, why this refusal?"  he asked.
"Formerly," I answered, "because you did not love me; now, I reply,
because you almost hate me.  If I were to marry you, you would kill
me.  You are killing me now."
His lips and cheeks turned white -- quite white.
"I SHOULD KILL YOU -- I AM KILLING YOU? Your words are such as ought
not to be used:  violent, unfeminine, and untrue.  They betray an
unfortunate state of mind:  they merit severe reproof:  they would
seem inexcusable, but that it is the duty of man to forgive his
fellow even until seventy-and-seven times."
I had finished the business now.  While earnestly wishing to erase
from his mind the trace of my former offence, I had stamped on that
tenacious surface another and far deeper impression, I had burnt
it in.
"Now you will indeed hate me," I said.  "It is useless to attempt
to conciliate you:  I see I have made an eternal enemy of you."
A fresh wrong did these words inflict:  the worse, because they
touched on the truth.  That bloodless lip quivered to a temporary
spasm.  I knew the steely ire I had whetted.  I was heart-wrung.
"You utterly misinterpret my words," I said, at once seizing his
hand:  "I have no intention to grieve or pain you -- indeed, I have
not."
Most bitterly he smiled -- most decidedly he withdrew his hand from
mine.  "And now you recall your promise, and will not go to India
at all, I presume?"  said he, after a considerable pause.
"Yes, I will, as your assistant," I answered.
A very long silence succeeded.  What struggle there was in him
between Nature and Grace in this interval, I cannot tell:  only
singular gleams scintillated in his eyes, and strange shadows passed
over his face.  He spoke at last.
"I before proved to you the absurdity of a single woman of your
age proposing to accompany abroad a single man of mine.  I proved
it to you in such terms as, I should have thought, would have
prevented your ever again alluding to the plan.  That you have done
so, I regret -- for your sake."
I interrupted him.  Anything like a tangible reproach gave me
courage at once.  "Keep to common sense, St. John:  you are verging
on nonsense.  You pretend to be shocked by what I have said.  You
are not really shocked:  for, with your superior mind, you cannot
be either so dull or so conceited as to misunderstand my meaning.
I say again, I will be your curate, if you like, but never your
wife."
Again he turned lividly pale; but, as before, controlled
his passion perfectly.  He answered emphatically but calmly -
"A female curate, who is not my wife, would never suit me.  With
me, then, it seems, you cannot go:  but if you are sincere in your
offer, I will, while in town, speak to a married missionary, whose
wife needs a coadjutor.  Your own fortune will make you independent
of the Society's aid; and thus you may still be spared the dishonour
of breaking your promise and deserting the band you engaged to
join."
Now I never had, as the reader knows, either given any formal
promise or entered into any engagement; and this language was all
much too hard and much too despotic for the occasion.  I replied -
"There is no dishonour, no breach of promise, no desertion in the
case.  I am not under the slightest obligation to go to India,
especially with strangers.  With you I would have ventured much,
because I admire, confide in, and, as a sister, I love you; but I
am convinced that, go when and with whom I would, I should not live
long in that climate."
"Ah!  you are afraid of yourself," he said, curling his lip.
"I am.  God did not give me my life to throw away; and to do as you
wish me would, I begin to think, be almost equivalent to committing
suicide.  Moreover, before I definitively resolve on quitting
England, I will know for certain whether I cannot be of greater
use by remaining in it than by leaving it."
"What do you mean?"
"It would be fruitless to attempt to explain; but there is a point
on which I have long endured painful doubt, and I can go nowhere
till by some means that doubt is removed."
"I know where your heart turns and to what it clings.  The interest
you cherish is lawless and unconsecrated.  Long since you ought to
have crushed it:  now you should blush to allude to it.  You think
of Mr. Rochester?"
It was true.  I confessed it by silence.
"Are you going to seek Mr. Rochester?"
"I must find out what is become of him."
