
"It remains for me, then," he said, "to remember you in my prayers,
and to entreat God for you, in all earnestness, that you may not
indeed become a castaway.  I had thought I recognised in you one of
the chosen.  But God sees not as man sees:  HIS will be done -- "
He opened the gate, passed through it, and strayed away down the
glen.  He was soon out of sight.
On re-entering the parlour, I found Diana standing at the window,
looking very thoughtful.  Diana was a great deal taller than I:
she put her hand on my shoulder, and, stooping, examined my face.
"Jane," she said, "you are always agitated and pale now.  I am
sure there is something the matter.  Tell me what business St. John
and you have on hands.  I have watched you this half hour from the
window; you must forgive my being such a spy, but for a long time
I have fancied I hardly know what.  St. John is a strange being -- "
She paused -- I did not speak:  soon she resumed -
"That brother of mine cherishes peculiar views of some sort respecting
you, I am sure:  he has long distinguished you by a notice and
interest he never showed to any one else -- to what end?  I wish
he loved you -- does he, Jane?"
I put her cool hand to my hot forehead; "No, Die, not one whit."
"Then why does he follow you so with his eyes, and get you so
frequently alone with him, and keep you so continually at his side?
Mary and I had both concluded he wished you to marry him."
"He does -- he has asked me to be his wife."
Diana clapped her hands.  "That is just what we hoped and thought!
And you will marry him, Jane, won't you?  And then he will stay in
England."
"Far from that, Diana; his sole idea in proposing to me is to
procure a fitting fellow-labourer in his Indian toils."
"What!  He wishes you to go to India?"
"Yes."
"Madness!"  she exclaimed.  "You would not live three months there,
I am certain.  You never shall go:  you have not consented, have
you, Jane?"
"I have refused to marry him -- "
"And have consequently displeased him?"  she suggested.
"Deeply:  he will never forgive me, I fear:  yet I offered to
accompany him as his sister."
"It was frantic folly to do so, Jane.  Think of the task you undertook
-- one of incessant fatigue, where fatigue kills even the strong,
and you are weak.  St. John -- you know him -- would urge you to
impossibilities:  with him there would be no permission to rest
during the hot hours; and unfortunately, I have noticed, whatever
he exacts, you force yourself to perform.  I am astonished you
found courage to refuse his hand.  You do not love him then, Jane?"
"Not as a husband."
"Yet he is a handsome fellow."
"And I am so plain, you see, Die.  We should never suit."
"Plain!  You?  Not at all.  You are much too pretty, as well as too
good, to be grilled alive in Calcutta."  And again she earnestly
conjured me to give up all thoughts of going out with her brother.
"I must indeed," I said; "for when just now I repeated the offer of
serving him for a deacon, he expressed himself shocked at my want
of decency.  He seemed to think I had committed an impropriety in
proposing to accompany him unmarried:  as if I had not from the
first hoped to find in him a brother, and habitually regarded him
as such."
"What makes you say he does not love you, Jane?"
"You should hear himself on the subject.  He has again and again
explained that it is not himself, but his office he wishes to mate.
He has told me I am formed for labour -- not for love:  which is
true, no doubt.  But, in my opinion, if I am not formed for love,
it follows that I am not formed for marriage.  Would it not be
strange, Die, to be chained for life to a man who regarded one but
as a useful tool?"
"Insupportable -- unnatural -- out of the question!"
"And then," I continued, "though I have only sisterly affection
for him now, yet, if forced to be his wife, I can imagine the
possibility of conceiving an inevitable, strange, torturing kind
of love for him, because he is so talented; and there is often a
certain heroic grandeur in his look, manner, and conversation.  In
that case, my lot would become unspeakably wretched.  He would not
want me to love him; and if I showed the feeling, he would make me
sensible that it was a superfluity, unrequired by him, unbecoming
in me.  I know he would."
"And yet St. John is a good man," said Diana.
"He is a good and a great man; but he forgets, pitilessly, the
feelings and claims of little people, in pursuing his own large
views.  It is better, therefore, for the insignificant to keep out
of his way, lest, in his progress, he should trample them down.
Here he comes!  I will leave you, Diana."  And I hastened upstairs
as I saw him entering the garden.
But I was forced to meet him again at supper.  During that meal he
appeared just as composed as usual.  I had thought he would hardly
speak to me, and I was certain he had given up the pursuit of
his matrimonial scheme:  the sequel showed I was mistaken on both
points.  He addressed me precisely in his ordinary manner, or what
had, of late, been his ordinary manner -- one scrupulously polite.
No doubt he had invoked the help of the Holy Spirit to subdue the
anger I had roused in him, and now believed he had forgiven me once
more.
For the evening reading before prayers, he selected the twenty-first
chapter of Revelation.  It was at all times pleasant to listen
while from his lips fell the words of the Bible:  never did his
fine voice sound at once so sweet and full -- never did his manner
become so impressive in its noble simplicity, as when he delivered
the oracles of God:  and to-night that voice took a more solemn
tone -- that manner a more thrilling meaning -- as he sat in the
midst of his household circle (the May moon shining in through the
uncurtained window, and rendering almost unnecessary the light of
the candle on the table):  as he sat there, bending over the great
old Bible, and described from its page the vision of the new heaven
and the new earth -- told how God would come to dwell with men,
how He would wipe away all tears from their eyes, and promised that
there should be no more death, neither sorrow nor crying, nor any
more pain, because the former things were passed away.
The succeeding words thrilled me strangely as he spoke them:
especially as I felt, by the slight, indescribable alteration in
sound, that in uttering them, his eye had turned on me.
"He that overcometh shall inherit all things; and I will be his
God, and he shall be my son.  But," was slowly, distinctly read,
"the fearful, the unbelieving, &c., shall have their part in the
lake which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second
death."
Henceforward, I knew what fate St. John feared for me.
A calm, subdued triumph, blent with a longing earnestness, marked
his enunciation of the last glorious verses of that chapter.  The
reader believed his name was already written in the Lamb's book of
life, and he yearned after the hour which should admit him to the
city to which the kings of the earth bring their glory and honour;
which has no need of sun or moon to shine in it, because the glory
of God lightens it, and the Lamb is the light thereof.
In the prayer following the chapter, all his energy gathered -- all
his stern zeal woke:  he was in deep earnest, wrestling with God,
and resolved on a conquest.  He supplicated strength for the weak-
hearted; guidance for wanderers from the fold:  a return, even at
the eleventh hour, for those whom the temptations of the world and
the flesh were luring from the narrow path.  He asked, he urged, he
claimed the boon of a brand snatched from the burning.  Earnestness
is ever deeply solemn:  first, as I listened to that prayer, I
wondered at his; then, when it continued and rose, I was touched
by it, and at last awed.  He felt the greatness and goodness of
his purpose so sincerely:  others who heard him plead for it, could
not but feel it too.
The prayer over, we took leave of him:  he was to go at a very
early hour in the morning.  Diana and Mary having kissed him, left
the room -- in compliance, I think, with a whispered hint from him:
I tendered my hand, and wished him a pleasant journey.
"Thank you, Jane.  As I said, I shall return from Cambridge in a
fortnight:  that space, then, is yet left you for reflection.  If
I listened to human pride, I should say no more to you of marriage
with me; but I listen to my duty, and keep steadily in view my
first aim -- to do all things to the glory of God.  My Master was
long-suffering:  so will I be.  I cannot give you up to perdition
as a vessel of wrath:  repent -- resolve, while there is yet time.
Remember, we are bid to work while it is day -- warned that 'the
night cometh when no man shall work.'  Remember the fate of Dives,
who had his good things in this life.  God give you strength to
choose that better part which shall not be taken from you!"
He laid his hand on my head as he uttered the last words.  He had
spoken earnestly, mildly:  his look was not, indeed, that of a lover
beholding his mistress, but it was that of a pastor recalling his
wandering sheep -- or better, of a guardian angel watching the
soul for which he is responsible.  All men of talent, whether they
be men of feeling or not; whether they be zealots, or aspirants,
or despots -- provided only they be sincere -- have their sublime
moments, when they subdue and rule.  I felt veneration for St. John
-- veneration so strong that its impetus thrust me at once to the
point I had so long shunned.  I was tempted to cease struggling
with him -- to rush down the torrent of his will into the gulf of
his existence, and there lose my own.  I was almost as hard beset
by him now as I had been once before, in a different way, by another.
I was a fool both times.  To have yielded then would have been an
error of principle; to have yielded now would have been an error of
judgment.  So I think at this hour, when I look back to the crisis
through the quiet medium of time:  I was unconscious of folly at
the instant.
I stood motionless under my hierophant's touch.  My refusals were
forgotten -- my fears overcome -- my wrestlings paralysed.  The
Impossible -- I.E., my marriage with St. John -- was fast becoming
the Possible.  All was changing utterly with a sudden sweep.
Religion called -- Angels beckoned -- God commanded -- life rolled
together like a scroll -- death's gates opening, showed eternity
beyond:  it seemed, that for safety and bliss there, all here might
be sacrificed in a second.  The dim room was full of visions.
"Could you decide now?"  asked the missionary.  The inquiry was put
in gentle tones:  he drew me to him as gently.  Oh, that gentleness!
how far more potent is it than force!  I could resist St. John's
wrath:  I grew pliant as a reed under his kindness.  Yet I knew all
the time, if I yielded now, I should not the less be made to repent,
some day, of my former rebellion.  His nature was not changed by
one hour of solemn prayer:  it was only elevated.
"I could decide if I were but certain," I answered:  "were I but
convinced that it is God's will I should marry you, I could vow to
marry you here and now -- come afterwards what would!"
"My prayers are heard!"  ejaculated St. John.  He pressed his hand
firmer on my head, as if he claimed me:  he surrounded me with his
arm, ALMOST as if he loved me (I say ALMOST -- I knew the difference
-- for I had felt what it was to be loved; but, like him, I had
now put love out of the question, and thought only of duty).  I
contended with my inward dimness of vision, before which clouds
yet rolled.  I sincerely, deeply, fervently longed to do what was
right; and only that.  "Show me, show me the path!"  I entreated
of Heaven.  I was excited more than I had ever been; and whether
what followed was the effect of excitement the reader shall judge.
All the house was still; for I believe all, except St. John and
myself, were now retired to rest.  The one candle was dying out:
the room was full of moonlight.  My heart beat fast and thick:  I
heard its throb.  Suddenly it stood still to an inexpressible
feeling that thrilled it through, and passed at once to my head
and extremities.  The feeling was not like an electric shock, but
it was quite as sharp, as strange, as startling:  it acted on my
senses as if their utmost activity hitherto had been but torpor,
from which they were now summoned and forced to wake.  They rose
expectant:  eye and ear waited while the flesh quivered on my bones.
"What have you heard?  What do you see?"  asked St. John.  I
saw nothing, but I heard a voice somewhere cry -
"Jane!  Jane!  Jane!" -- nothing more.
"O God!  what is it?"  I gasped.
I might have said, "Where is it?"  for it did not seem in the room
-- nor in the house -- nor in the garden; it did not come out of
the air -- nor from under the earth -- nor from overhead.  I had
heard it -- where, or whence, for ever impossible to know!  And it
was the voice of a human being -- a known, loved, well-remembered
voice -- that of Edward Fairfax Rochester; and it spoke in pain
and woe, wildly, eerily, urgently.
"I am coming!"  I cried.  "Wait for me!  Oh, I will come!"  I flew
to the door and looked into the passage:  it was dark.  I ran out
into the garden:  it was void.
"Where are you?"  I exclaimed.
