
"And this lady?"
"This lady, ma'am," he answered, "turned out to be Mr. Rochester's
wife!  The discovery was brought about in the strangest way.  There
was a young lady, a governess at the Hall, that Mr. Rochester fell in -- "
"But the fire," I suggested.
"I'm coming to that, ma'am -- that Mr. Edward fell in love with.
The servants say they never saw anybody so much in love as he was:
he was after her continually.  They used to watch him -- servants
will, you know, ma'am -- and he set store on her past everything:
for all, nobody but him thought her so very handsome.  She was
a little small thing, they say, almost like a child.  I never saw
her myself; but I've heard Leah, the house-maid, tell of her.  Leah
liked her well enough.  Mr. Rochester was about forty, and this
governess not twenty; and you see, when gentlemen of his age fall
in love with girls, they are often like as if they were bewitched.
Well, he would marry her."
"You shall tell me this part of the story another time," I said;
"but now I have a particular reason for wishing to hear all about
the fire.  Was it suspected that this lunatic, Mrs. Rochester, had
any hand in it?"
"You've hit it, ma'am:  it's quite certain that it was her, and
nobody but her, that set it going.  She had a woman to take care
of her called Mrs. Poole -- an able woman in her line, and very
trustworthy, but for one fault -- a fault common to a deal of them
nurses and matrons -- she KEPT A PRIVATE BOTTLE OF GIN BY HER,
and now and then took a drop over-much.  It is excusable, for she
had a hard life of it:  but still it was dangerous; for when Mrs.
Poole was fast asleep after the gin and water, the mad lady, who
was as cunning as a witch, would take the keys out of her pocket,
let herself out of her chamber, and go roaming about the house,
doing any wild mischief that came into her head.  They say she had
nearly burnt her husband in his bed once:  but I don't know about
that.  However, on this night, she set fire first to the hangings
of the room next her own, and then she got down to a lower storey,
and made her way to the chamber that had been the governess's --
(she was like as if she knew somehow how matters had gone on, and
had a spite at her) -- and she kindled the bed there; but there
was nobody sleeping in it, fortunately.  The governess had run away
two months before; and for all Mr. Rochester sought her as if she
had been the most precious thing he had in the world, he never
could hear a word of her; and he grew savage -- quite savage on
his disappointment:  he never was a wild man, but he got dangerous
after he lost her.  He would be alone, too.  He sent Mrs. Fairfax,
the housekeeper, away to her friends at a distance; but he did it
handsomely, for he settled an annuity on her for life:  and she
deserved it -- she was a very good woman.  Miss Adele, a ward he
had, was put to school.  He broke off acquaintance with all the
gentry, and shut himself up like a hermit at the Hall."
"What!  did he not leave England?"
"Leave England?  Bless you, no!  He would not cross the door-stones
of the house, except at night, when he walked just like a ghost
about the grounds and in the orchard as if he had lost his senses
-- which it is my opinion he had; for a more spirited, bolder, keener
gentleman than he was before that midge of a governess crossed him,
you never saw, ma'am.  He was not a man given to wine, or cards,
or racing, as some are, and he was not so very handsome; but he
had a courage and a will of his own, if ever man had.  I knew him
from a boy, you see:  and for my part, I have often wished that
Miss Eyre had been sunk in the sea before she came to Thornfield
Hall."
"Then Mr. Rochester was at home when the fire broke out?"
"Yes, indeed was he; and he went up to the attics when all was
burning above and below, and got the servants out of their beds
and helped them down himself, and went back to get his mad wife out
of her cell.  And then they called out to him that she was on the
roof, where she was standing, waving her arms, above the battlements,
and shouting out till they could hear her a mile off:  I saw her
and heard her with my own eyes.  She was a big woman, and had long
black hair:  we could see it streaming against the flames as she
stood.  I witnessed, and several more witnessed, Mr. Rochester ascend
through the sky-light on to the roof; we heard him call 'Bertha!'
We saw him approach her; and then, ma'am, she yelled and gave a
spring, and the next minute she lay smashed on the pavement."
"Dead?"
"Dead!  Ay, dead as the stones on which her brains and blood were
scattered."
"Good God!"
"You may well say so, ma'am:  it was frightful!"
He shuddered.
"And afterwards?"  I urged.
"Well, ma'am, afterwards the house was burnt to the ground:  there
are only some bits of walls standing now."
"Were any other lives lost?"
"No -- perhaps it would have been better if there had."
"What do you mean?"
"Poor Mr. Edward!"  he ejaculated, "I little thought ever to have
seen it!  Some say it was a just judgment on him for keeping his
first marriage secret, and wanting to take another wife while he
had one living:  but I pity him, for my part."
"You said he was alive?"  I exclaimed.
"Yes, yes:  he is alive; but many think he had better he dead."
"Why?  How?"  My blood was again running cold.  "Where is he?"  I
demanded.  "Is he in England?"
"Ay -- ay -- he's in England; he can't get out of England, I fancy
-- he's a fixture now."
What agony was this!  And the man seemed resolved to protract it.
"He is stone-blind," he said at last.  "Yes, he is stone-blind, is
Mr. Edward."
I had dreaded worse.  I had dreaded he was mad.  I summoned strength
to ask what had caused this calamity.
"It was all his own courage, and a body may say, his kindness,
in a way, ma'am:  he wouldn't leave the house till every one else
was out before him.  As he came down the great staircase at last,
after Mrs. Rochester had flung herself from the battlements, there
was a great crash -- all fell.  He was taken out from under the
ruins, alive, but sadly hurt:  a beam had fallen in such a way as
to protect him partly; but one eye was knocked out, and one hand so
crushed that Mr. Carter, the surgeon, had to amputate it directly.
The other eye inflamed:  he lost the sight of that also.  He is
now helpless, indeed -- blind and a cripple."
"Where is he?  Where does he now live?"
"At Ferndean, a manor-house on a farm he has, about thirty miles
off:  quite a desolate spot."
"Who is with him?"
"Old John and his wife:  he would have none else.  He is quite
broken down, they say."
"Have you any sort of conveyance?"
"We have a chaise, ma'am, a very handsome chaise."
"Let it be got ready instantly; and if your post-boy can drive me
to Ferndean before dark this day, I'll pay both you and him twice
the hire you usually demand."
CHAPTER XXXVII
The manor-house of Ferndean was a building of considerable antiquity,
moderate size, and no architectural pretensions, deep buried in
a wood.  I had heard of it before.  Mr. Rochester often spoke of
it, and sometimes went there.  His father had purchased the estate
for the sake of the game covers.  He would have let the house, but
could find no tenant, in consequence of its ineligible and insalubrious
site.  Ferndean then remained uninhabited and unfurnished, with the
exception of some two or three rooms fitted up for the accommodation
of the squire when he went there in the season to shoot.
To this house I came just ere dark on an evening marked by the
characteristics of sad sky, cold gale, and continued small penetrating
rain.  The last mile I performed on foot, having dismissed the
chaise and driver with the double remuneration I had promised.  Even
when within a very short distance of the manor-house, you could
see nothing of it, so thick and dark grew the timber of the gloomy
wood about it.  Iron gates between granite pillars showed me where
to enter, and passing through them, I found myself at once in the
twilight of close-ranked trees.  There was a grass-grown track
descending the forest aisle between hoar and knotty shafts and
under branched arches.  I followed it, expecting soon to reach the
dwelling; but it stretched on and on, it would far and farther:
no sign of habitation or grounds was visible.
I thought I had taken a wrong direction and lost my way.  The
darkness of natural as well as of sylvan dusk gathered over me.  I
looked round in search of another road.  There was none:  all was
interwoven stem, columnar trunk, dense summer foliage -- no opening
anywhere.
I proceeded:  at last my way opened, the trees thinned a little;
presently I beheld a railing, then the house -- scarce, by this
dim light, distinguishable from the trees; so dank and green were
its decaying walls.  Entering a portal, fastened only by a latch,
I stood amidst a space of enclosed ground, from which the wood swept
away in a semicircle.  There were no flowers, no garden-beds; only
a broad gravel-walk girdling a grass-plat, and this set in the
heavy frame of the forest.  The house presented two pointed gables
in its front; the windows were latticed and narrow:  the front
door was narrow too, one step led up to it.  The whole looked, as
the host of the Rochester Arms had said, "quite a desolate spot."
It was as still as a church on a week-day:  the pattering rain on
the forest leaves was the only sound audible in its vicinage.
"Can there be life here?"  I asked.
Yes, life of some kind there was; for I heard a movement -- that
narrow front-door was unclosing, and some shape was about to issue
from the grange.
It opened slowly:  a figure came out into the twilight and stood
on the step; a man without a hat:  he stretched forth his hand as
if to feel whether it rained.  Dusk as it was, I had recognised
him -- it was my master, Edward Fairfax Rochester, and no other.
I stayed my step, almost my breath, and stood to watch him -- to
examine him, myself unseen, and alas!  to him invisible.  It was
a sudden meeting, and one in which rapture was kept well in check
by pain.  I had no difficulty in restraining my voice from exclamation,
my step from hasty advance.
His form was of the same strong and stalwart contour as ever:  his
port was still erect, his hair was still raven black; nor were his
features altered or sunk:  not in one year's space, by any sorrow,
could his athletic strength be quelled or his vigorous prime blighted.
But in his countenance I saw a change:  that looked desperate and
brooding -- that reminded me of some wronged and fettered wild
beast or bird, dangerous to approach in his sullen woe.  The caged
eagle, whose gold-ringed eyes cruelty has extinguished, might look
as looked that sightless Samson.
And, reader, do you think I feared him in his blind ferocity? --
if you do, you little know me.  A soft hope blest with my sorrow
that soon I should dare to drop a kiss on that brow of rock, and
on those lips so sternly sealed beneath it:  but not yet.  I would
not accost him yet.
