
He descended the one step, and advanced slowly and gropingly towards
the grass-plat.  Where was his daring stride now?  Then he paused,
as if he knew not which way to turn.  He lifted his hand and opened
his eyelids; gazed blank, and with a straining effort, on the sky,
and toward the amphitheatre of trees:  one saw that all to him
was void darkness.  He stretched his right hand (the left arm, the
mutilated one, he kept hidden in his bosom); he seemed to wish by
touch to gain an idea of what lay around him:  he met but vacancy
still; for the trees were some yards off where he stood.  He
relinquished the endeavour, folded his arms, and stood quiet and
mute in the rain, now falling fast on his uncovered head.  At this
moment John approached him from some quarter.
"Will you take my arm, sir?"  he said; "there is a heavy shower
coming on:  had you not better go in?"
"Let me alone," was the answer.
John withdrew without having observed me.  Mr. Rochester now tried
to walk about:  vainly, -- all was too uncertain.  He groped his
way back to the house, and, re-entering it, closed the door.
I now drew near and knocked:  John's wife opened for me.  "Mary,"
I said, "how are you?"
She started as if she had seen a ghost:  I calmed her.  To her
hurried "Is it really you, miss, come at this late hour to this
lonely place?"  I answered by taking her hand; and then I followed
her into the kitchen, where John now sat by a good fire.  I explained
to them, in few words, that I had heard all which had happened since
I left Thornfield, and that I was come to see Mr. Rochester.  I
asked John to go down to the turn-pike-house, where I had dismissed
the chaise, and bring my trunk, which I had left there:  and
then, while I removed my bonnet and shawl, I questioned Mary as to
whether I could be accommodated at the Manor House for the night;
and finding that arrangements to that effect, though difficult,
would not be impossible, I informed her I should stay.  Just at
this moment the parlour-bell rang.
"When you go in," said I, "tell your master that a person wishes
to speak to him, but do not give my name."
"I don't think he will see you," she answered; "he refuses everybody."
When she returned, I inquired what he had said.  "You are to send
in your name and your business," she replied.  She then proceeded
to fill a glass with water, and place it on a tray, together with
candles.
"Is that what he rang for?"  I asked.
"Yes:  he always has candles brought in at dark, though he is
blind."
"Give the tray to me; I will carry it in."
I took it from her hand:  she pointed me out the parlour door.  The
tray shook as I held it; the water spilt from the glass; my heart
struck my ribs loud and fast.  Mary opened the door for me, and
shut it behind me.
This parlour looked gloomy:  a neglected handful of fire burnt low
in the grate; and, leaning over it, with his head supported against
the high, old-fashioned mantelpiece, appeared the blind tenant
of the room.  His old dog, Pilot, lay on one side, removed out of
the way, and coiled up as if afraid of being inadvertently trodden
upon.  Pilot pricked up his ears when I came in:  then he jumped
up with a yelp and a whine, and bounded towards me:  he almost
knocked the tray from my hands.  I set it on the table; then patted
him, and said softly, "Lie down!"  Mr. Rochester turned mechanically
to SEE what the commotion was:  but as he SAW nothing, he returned
and sighed.
"Give me the water, Mary," he said.
I approached him with the now only half-filled glass; Pilot followed
me, still excited.
"What is the matter?"  he inquired.
"Down, Pilot!"  I again said.  He checked the water on its way to
his lips, and seemed to listen:  he drank, and put the glass down.
"This is you, Mary, is it not?"
"Mary is in the kitchen," I answered.
He put out his hand with a quick gesture, but not seeing where
I stood, he did not touch me.  "Who is this?  Who is this?"  he
demanded, trying, as it seemed, to SEE with those sightless eyes
-- unavailing and distressing attempt!  "Answer me -- speak again!"
he ordered, imperiously and aloud.
"Will you have a little more water, sir?  I spilt half of what was
in the glass," I said.
"WHO is it?  WHAT is it?  Who speaks?"
"Pilot knows me, and John and Mary know I am here.  I came only
this evening," I answered.
"Great God! -- what delusion has come over me?  What sweet madness
has seized me?"
"No delusion -- no madness:  your mind, sir, is too strong for
delusion, your health too sound for frenzy."
"And where is the speaker?  Is it only a voice?  Oh!  I CANNOT
see, but I must feel, or my heart will stop and my brain burst.
Whatever -- whoever you are -- be perceptible to the touch or I
cannot live!"
He groped; I arrested his wandering hand, and prisoned it in both
mine.
"Her very fingers!"  he cried; "her small, slight fingers!  If so
there must be more of her."
The muscular hand broke from my custody; my arm was seized, my
shoulder -- neck -- waist -- I was entwined and gathered to him.
"Is it Jane?  WHAT is it?  This is her shape -- this is her size -- "
"And this her voice," I added.  "She is all here:  her heart, too.
God bless you, sir!  I am glad to be so near you again."
"Jane Eyre! -- Jane Eyre," was all he said.
"My dear master," I answered, "I am Jane Eyre:  I have found you
out -- I am come back to you."
"In truth? -- in the flesh?  My living Jane?"
"You touch me, sir, -- you hold me, and fast enough:  I am not cold
like a corpse, nor vacant like air, am I?"
"My living darling!  These are certainly her limbs, and these her
features; but I cannot be so blest, after all my misery.  It is a
dream; such dreams as I have had at night when I have clasped her
once more to my heart, as I do now; and kissed her, as thus -- and
felt that she loved me, and trusted that she would not leave me."
"Which I never will, sir, from this day."
"Never will, says the vision?  But I always woke and found it an
empty mockery; and I was desolate and abandoned -- my life dark,
lonely, hopeless -- my soul athirst and forbidden to drink -- my
heart famished and never to be fed.  Gentle, soft dream, nestling
in my arms now, you will fly, too, as your sisters have all fled
before you:  but kiss me before you go -- embrace me, Jane."
"There, sir -- and there!"'
I pressed my lips to his once brilliant and now rayless eyes --
I swept his hair from his brow, and kissed that too.  He suddenly
seemed to arouse himself:  the conviction of the reality of all
this seized him.
"It is you -- is it, Jane?  You are come back to me then?"
"I am."
"And you do not lie dead in some ditch under some stream?  And you
are not a pining outcast amongst strangers?"
"No, sir!  I am an independent woman now."
"Independent!  What do you mean, Jane?"
"My uncle in Madeira is dead, and he left me five thousand pounds."
"Ah!  this is practical -- this is real!"  he cried:  "I should
never dream that.  Besides, there is that peculiar voice of hers,
so animating and piquant, as well as soft:  it cheers my withered
heart; it puts life into it. -- What, Janet!  Are you an independent
woman?  A rich woman?"
"If you won't let me live with you, I can build a house of my own
close up to your door, and you may come and sit in my parlour when
you want company of an evening."
"But as you are rich, Jane, you have now, no doubt, friends who
will look after you, and not suffer you to devote yourself to a
blind lameter like me?"
"I told you I am independent, sir, as well as rich:  I am my own
mistress."
