
"And you will stay with me?"
"Certainly -- unless you object.  I will be your neighbour,
your nurse, your housekeeper.  I find you lonely:  I will be your
companion -- to read to you, to walk with you, to sit with you,
to wait on you, to be eyes and hands to you.  Cease to look so
melancholy, my dear master; you shall not be left desolate, so long
as I live."
He replied not:  he seemed serious -- abstracted; he sighed;
he half-opened his lips as if to speak:  he closed them again.  I
felt a little embarrassed.  Perhaps I had too rashly over-leaped
conventionalities; and he, like St. John, saw impropriety in my
inconsiderateness.  I had indeed made my proposal from the idea
that he wished and would ask me to be his wife:  an expectation,
not the less certain because unexpressed, had buoyed me up, that
he would claim me at once as his own.  But no hint to that effect
escaping him and his countenance becoming more overcast, I suddenly
remembered that I might have been all wrong, and was perhaps playing
the fool unwittingly; and I began gently to withdraw myself from
his arms -- but he eagerly snatched me closer.
"No -- no -- Jane; you must not go.  No -- I have touched you,
heard you, felt the comfort of your presence -- the sweetness of
your consolation:  I cannot give up these joys.  I have little left
in myself -- I must have you.  The world may laugh -- may call me
absurd, selfish -- but it does not signify.  My very soul demands
you:  it will be satisfied, or it will take deadly vengeance on
its frame."
"Well, sir, I will stay with you:  I have said so."
"Yes -- but you understand one thing by staying with me; and I
understand another.  You, perhaps, could make up your mind to be
about my hand and chair -- to wait on me as a kind little nurse
(for you have an affectionate heart and a generous spirit, which
prompt you to make sacrifices for those you pity), and that ought
to suffice for me no doubt.  I suppose I should now entertain none
but fatherly feelings for you:  do you think so?  Come -- tell me."
"I will think what you like, sir:  I am content to be only your
nurse, if you think it better."
"But you cannot always be my nurse, Janet:  you are young -- you
must marry one day."
"I don't care about being married."
"You should care, Janet:  if I were what I once was, I would try
to make you care -- but -- a sightless block!"
He relapsed again into gloom.  I, on the contrary, became more
cheerful, and took fresh courage:  these last words gave me an
insight as to where the difficulty lay; and as it was no difficulty
with me, I felt quite relieved from my previous embarrassment.  I
resumed a livelier vein of conversation.
"It is time some one undertook to rehumanise you," said I, parting
his thick and long uncut locks; "for I see you are being metamorphosed
into a lion, or something of that sort.  You have a 'faux air' of
Nebuchadnezzar in the fields about you, that is certain:  your hair
reminds me of eagles' feathers; whether your nails are grown like
birds' claws or not, I have not yet noticed."
"On this arm, I have neither hand nor nails," he said, drawing
the mutilated limb from his breast, and showing it to me.  "It is
a mere stump -- a ghastly sight!  Don't you think so, Jane?"
"It is a pity to see it; and a pity to see your eyes -- and the
scar of fire on your forehead:  and the worst of it is, one is in
danger of loving you too well for all this; and making too much of
you."
"I thought you would be revolted, Jane, when you saw my arm, and
my cicatrised visage."
"Did you?  Don't tell me so -- lest I should say something
disparaging to your judgment.  Now, let me leave you an instant,
to make a better fire, and have the hearth swept up.  Can you tell
when there is a good fire?"
"Yes; with the right eye I see a glow -- a ruddy haze."
"And you see the candles?"
"Very dimly -- each is a luminous cloud."
"Can you see me?"
"No, my fairy:  but I am only too thankful to hear and feel you."
"When do you take supper?"
"I never take supper."
"But you shall have some to-night.  I am hungry:  so are you, I
daresay, only you forget."
Summoning Mary, I soon had the room in more cheerful order:  I
prepared him, likewise, a comfortable repast.  My spirits were
excited, and with pleasure and ease I talked to him during supper,
and for a long time after.  There was no harassing restraint, no
repressing of glee and vivacity with him; for with him I was at
perfect ease, because I knew I suited him; all I said or did seemed
either to console or revive him.  Delightful consciousness!  It
brought to life and light my whole nature:  in his presence I
thoroughly lived; and he lived in mine.  Blind as he was, smiles
played over his face, joy dawned on his forehead:  his lineaments
softened and warmed.
After supper, he began to ask me many questions, of where I had
been, what I had been doing, how I had found him out; but I gave
him only very partial replies:  it was too late to enter into
particulars that night.  Besides, I wished to touch no deep-thrilling
chord -- to open no fresh well of emotion in his heart:  my sole
present aim was to cheer him.  Cheered, as I have said, he was:
and yet but by fits.  If a moment's silence broke the conversation,
he would turn restless, touch me, then say, "Jane."
"You are altogether a human being, Jane?  You are certain of that?"
"I conscientiously believe so, Mr. Rochester."
"Yet how, on this dark and doleful evening, could you so suddenly
rise on my lone hearth?  I stretched my hand to take a glass of water
from a hireling, and it was given me by you:  I asked a question,
expecting John's wife to answer me, and your voice spoke at my
ear."
"Because I had come in, in Mary's stead, with the tray."
"And there is enchantment in the very hour I am now spending with
you.  Who can tell what a dark, dreary, hopeless life I have dragged
on for months past?  Doing nothing, expecting nothing; merging night
in day; feeling but the sensation of cold when I let the fire go
out, of hunger when I forgot to eat:  and then a ceaseless sorrow,
and, at times, a very delirium of desire to behold my Jane again.
Yes:  for her restoration I longed, far more than for that of my
lost sight.  How can it be that Jane is with me, and says she loves
me?  Will she not depart as suddenly as she came?  To-morrow, I
fear I shall find her no more."
A commonplace, practical reply, out of the train of his own
disturbed ideas, was, I was sure, the best and most reassuring for
him in this frame of mind.  I passed my finger over his eyebrows,
and remarked that they were scorched, and that I would apply
something which would make them grow as broad and black as ever.
"Where is the use of doing me good in any way, beneficent spirit,
when, at some fatal moment, you will again desert me -- passing
like a shadow, whither and how to me unknown, and for me remaining
afterwards undiscoverable?
"Have you a pocket-comb about you, sir?"
"What for, Jane?"
"Just to comb out this shaggy black mane.  I find you rather
alarming, when I examine you close at hand:  you talk of my being
a fairy, but I am sure, you are more like a brownie."
"Am I hideous, Jane?"
"Very, sir:  you always were, you know."
"Humph!  The wickedness has not been taken out of you, wherever
you have sojourned."
"Yet I have been with good people; far better than you:  a hundred
times better people; possessed of ideas and views you never
entertained in your life:  quite more refined and exalted."
"Who the deuce have you been with?"
"If you twist in that way you will make me pull the hair out of
your head; and then I think you will cease to entertain doubts of
my substantiality."
"Who have you been with, Jane?"
"You shall not get it out of me to-night, sir; you must wait till
to-morrow; to leave my tale half told, will, you know, be a sort
of security that I shall appear at your breakfast table to finish
it.  By the bye, I must mind not to rise on your hearth with only
a glass of water then:  I must bring an egg at the least, to say
nothing of fried ham."
"You mocking changeling -- fairy-born and human-bred!  You make me
feel as I have not felt these twelve months.  If Saul could have
had you for his David, the evil spirit would have been exorcised
without the aid of the harp."
"There, sir, you are redd up and made decent.  Now I'll leave you:
I have been travelling these last three days, and I believe I am
tired.  Good night."
"Just one word, Jane:  were there only ladies in the house where
you have been?"
I laughed and made my escape, still laughing as I ran upstairs.
"A good idea!"  I thought with glee.  "I see I have the means of
fretting him out of his melancholy for some time to come."
Very early the next morning I heard him up and astir, wandering
from one room to another.  As soon as Mary came down I heard the
question:  "Is Miss Eyre here?"  Then:  "Which room did you put her
into?  Was it dry?  Is she up?  Go and ask if she wants anything;
and when she will come down."
I came down as soon as I thought there was a prospect of breakfast.
Entering the room very softly, I had a view of him before he
discovered my presence.  It was mournful, indeed, to witness the
subjugation of that vigorous spirit to a corporeal infirmity.  He
sat in his chair -- still, but not at rest:  expectant evidently;
the lines of now habitual sadness marking his strong features.  His
countenance reminded one of a lamp quenched, waiting to be re-lit
-- and alas!  it was not himself that could now kindle the lustre
of animated expression:  he was dependent on another for that
office!  I had meant to be gay and careless, but the powerlessness
of the strong man touched my heart to the quick:  still I accosted
him with what vivacity I could.
