
"It is a bright, sunny morning, sir," I said.  "The rain is over
and gone, and there is a tender shining after it:  you shall have
a walk soon."
I had wakened the glow:  his features beamed.
"Oh, you are indeed there, my skylark!  Come to me.  You are not
gone:  not vanished?  I heard one of your kind an hour ago, singing
high over the wood:  but its song had no music for me, any more than
the rising sun had rays.  All the melody on earth is concentrated
in my Jane's tongue to my ear (I am glad it is not naturally a
silent one):  all the sunshine I can feel is in her presence."
The water stood in my eyes to hear this avowal of his dependence;
just as if a royal eagle, chained to a perch, should be forced
to entreat a sparrow to become its purveyor.  But I would not be
lachrymose:  I dashed off the salt drops, and busied myself with
preparing breakfast.
Most of the morning was spent in the open air.  I led him out of
the wet and wild wood into some cheerful fields:  I described to
him how brilliantly green they were; how the flowers and hedges
looked refreshed; how sparklingly blue was the sky.  I sought a
seat for him in a hidden and lovely spot, a dry stump of a tree;
nor did I refuse to let him, when seated, place me on his knee.  Why
should I, when both he and I were happier near than apart?  Pilot
lay beside us:  all was quiet.  He broke out suddenly while
clasping me in his arms -
"Cruel, cruel deserter!  Oh, Jane, what did I feel when I discovered
you had fled from Thornfield, and when I could nowhere find you;
and, after examining your apartment, ascertained that you had taken
no money, nor anything which could serve as an equivalent!  A pearl
necklace I had given you lay untouched in its little casket; your
trunks were left corded and locked as they had been prepared for
the bridal tour.  What could my darling do, I asked, left destitute
and penniless?  And what did she do?  Let me hear now."
Thus urged, I began the narrative of my experience for the last
year.  I softened considerably what related to the three days of
wandering and starvation, because to have told him all would have
been to inflict unnecessary pain:  the little I did say lacerated
his faithful heart deeper than I wished.
I should not have left him thus, he said, without any means of
making my way:  I should have told him my intention.  I should have
confided in him:  he would never have forced me to be his mistress.
Violent as he had seemed in his despair, he, in truth, loved me
far too well and too tenderly to constitute himself my tyrant:  he
would have given me half his fortune, without demanding so much as
a kiss in return, rather than I should have flung myself friendless
on the wide world.  I had endured, he was certain, more than I had
confessed to him.
"Well, whatever my sufferings had been, they were very short," I
answered:  and then I proceeded to tell him how I had been received
at Moor House; how I had obtained the office of schoolmistress, &c.
The accession of fortune, the discovery of my relations, followed
in due order.  Of course, St. John Rivers' name came in frequently
in the progress of my tale.  When I had done, that name was
immediately taken up.
"This St. John, then, is your cousin?"
"Yes."
"You have spoken of him often:  do you like him?"
"He was a very good man, sir; I could not help liking him."
"A good man.  Does that mean a respectable well-conducted man of
fifty?  Or what does it mean?"
"St John was only twenty-nine, sir."
"'Jeune encore,' as the French say.  Is he a person of low stature,
phlegmatic, and plain.  A person whose goodness consists rather in
his guiltlessness of vice, than in his prowess in virtue."
"He is untiringly active.  Great and exalted deeds are what he
lives to perform."
"But his brain?  That is probably rather soft?  He means well:  but
you shrug your shoulders to hear him talk?"
"He talks little, sir:  what he does say is ever to the point.  His
brain is first-rate, I should think not impressible, but vigorous."
"Is he an able man, then?"
"Truly able."
"A thoroughly educated man?"
"St. John is an accomplished and profound scholar."
"His manners, I think, you said are not to your taste? -- priggish
and parsonic?"
"I never mentioned his manners; but, unless I had a very bad taste,
they must suit it; they are polished, calm, and gentlemanlike."
"His appearance, -- I forget what description you gave of his
appearance; -- a sort of raw curate, half strangled with his white
neckcloth, and stilted up on his thick-soled high-lows, eh?"
"St. John dresses well.  He is a handsome man:  tall, fair, with
blue eyes, and a Grecian profile."
(Aside.) "Damn him!" -- (To me.) "Did you like him, Jane?"
"Yes, Mr. Rochester, I liked him:  but you asked me that before."
I perceived, of course, the drift of my interlocutor.  Jealousy
had got hold of him:  she stung him; but the sting was salutary:
it gave him respite from the gnawing fang of melancholy.  I would
not, therefore, immediately charm the snake.
"Perhaps you would rather not sit any longer on my knee, Miss Eyre?"
was the next somewhat unexpected observation.
"Why not, Mr. Rochester?"
"The picture you have just drawn is suggestive of a rather too
overwhelming contrast.  Your words have delineated very prettily
a graceful Apollo:  he is present to your imagination, -- tall,
fair, blue-eyed, and with a Grecian profile.  Your eyes dwell on a
Vulcan, -- a real blacksmith, brown, broad-shouldered:  and blind
and lame into the bargain."
"I never thought of it, before; but you certainly are rather like
Vulcan, sir."
"Well, you can leave me, ma'am:  but before you go" (and he retained
me by a firmer grasp than ever), "you will be pleased just to answer
me a question or two."  He paused.
"What questions, Mr. Rochester?"
Then followed this cross-examination.
"St. John made you schoolmistress of Morton before he knew you were
his cousin?"
"Yes."
"You would often see him?  He would visit the school sometimes?"
"Daily."
"He would approve of your plans, Jane?  I know they would be clever,
for you are a talented creature!"
"He approved of them -- yes."
"He would discover many things in you he could not have expected
to find?  Some of your accomplishments are not ordinary."
"I don't know about that."
"You had a little cottage near the school, you say:  did he ever
come there to see you?"
"Now and then?"
"Of an evening?"
"Once or twice."
A pause.
