
"What is your name besides Burns?"
"Helen."
"Do you come a long way from here?"
"I come from a place farther north, quite on the borders of Scotland."
"Will you ever go back?"
"I hope so; but nobody can be sure of the future."
"You must wish to leave Lowood?"
"No!  why should I? I was sent to Lowood to get an education; and
it would be of no use going away until I have attained that object."
"But that teacher, Miss Scatcherd, is so cruel to you?"
"Cruel?  Not at all!  She is severe:  she dislikes my faults."
"And if I were in your place I should dislike her; I should resist
her.  If she struck me with that rod, I should get it from her
hand; I should break it under her nose."
"Probably you would do nothing of the sort:  but if you did, Mr.
Brocklehurst would expel you from the school; that would be a great
grief to your relations.  It is far better to endure patiently a
smart which nobody feels but yourself, than to commit a hasty action
whose evil consequences will extend to all connected with you; and
besides, the Bible bids us return good for evil."
"But then it seems disgraceful to be flogged, and to be sent to
stand in the middle of a room full of people; and you are such a
great girl:  I am far younger than you, and I could not bear it."
"Yet it would be your duty to bear it, if you could not avoid it:
it is weak and silly to say you CANNOT BEAR what it is your fate
to be required to bear."
I heard her with wonder:  I could not comprehend this doctrine of
endurance; and still less could I understand or sympathise with
the forbearance she expressed for her chastiser.  Still I felt that
Helen Burns considered things by a light invisible to my eyes.  I
suspected she might be right and I wrong; but I would not ponder
the matter deeply; like Felix, I put it off to a more convenient
season.
"You say you have faults, Helen:  what are they?  To me you seem
very good."
"Then learn from me, not to judge by appearances:  I am, as Miss
Scatcherd said, slatternly; I seldom put, and never keep, things,
in order; I am careless; I forget rules; I read when I should
learn my lessons; I have no method; and sometimes I say, like you,
I cannot BEAR to be subjected to systematic arrangements.  This
is all very provoking to Miss Scatcherd, who is naturally neat,
punctual, and particular."
"And cross and cruel," I added; but Helen Burns would not admit my
addition:  she kept silence.
"Is Miss Temple as severe to you as Miss Scatcherd?"
At the utterance of Miss Temple's name, a soft smile flitted over
her grave face.
"Miss Temple is full of goodness; it pains her to be severe to any
one, even the worst in the school:  she sees my errors, and tells
me of them gently; and, if I do anything worthy of praise, she gives
me my meed liberally.  One strong proof of my wretchedly defective
nature is, that even her expostulations, so mild, so rational, have
not influence to cure me of my faults; and even her praise, though
I value it most highly, cannot stimulate me to continued care and
foresight."
"That is curious," said I, "it is so easy to be careful."
"For YOU I have no doubt it is.  I observed you in your class this
morning, and saw you were closely attentive:  your thoughts never
seemed to wander while Miss Miller explained the lesson and questioned
you.  Now, mine continually rove away; when I should be listening
to Miss Scatcherd, and collecting all she says with assiduity, often
I lose the very sound of her voice; I fall into a sort of dream.
Sometimes I think I am in Northumberland, and that the noises I
hear round me are the bubbling of a little brook which runs through
Deepden, near our house; -- then, when it comes to my turn to reply,
I have to be awakened; and having heard nothing of what was read
for listening to the visionary brook, I have no answer ready."
"Yet how well you replied this afternoon."
"It was mere chance; the subject on which we had been reading had
interested me.  This afternoon, instead of dreaming of Deepden, I
was wondering how a man who wished to do right could act so unjustly
and unwisely as Charles the First sometimes did; and I thought what
a pity it was that, with his integrity and conscientiousness, he
could see no farther than the prerogatives of the crown.  If he had
but been able to look to a distance, and see how what they call the
spirit of the age was tending!  Still, I like Charles -- I respect
him -- I pity him, poor murdered king!  Yes, his enemies were the
worst:  they shed blood they had no right to shed.  How dared they
kill him!"
Helen was talking to herself now:  she had forgotten I could not
very well understand her -- that I was ignorant, or nearly so, of
the subject she discussed.  I recalled her to my level.
"And when Miss Temple teaches you, do your thoughts wander then?"
"No, certainly, not often; because Miss Temple has generally something
to say which is newer than my own reflections; her language is
singularly agreeable to me, and the information she communicates
is often just what I wished to gain."
"Well, then, with Miss Temple you are good?"
"Yes, in a passive way:  I make no effort; I follow as inclination
guides me.  There is no merit in such goodness."
"A great deal:  you are good to those who are good to you.  It is
all I ever desire to be.  If people were always kind and obedient
to those who are cruel and unjust, the wicked people would have
it all their own way:  they would never feel afraid, and so they
would never alter, but would grow worse and worse.  When we are
struck at without a reason, we should strike back again very hard;
I am sure we should -- so hard as to teach the person who struck
us never to do it again."
"You will change your mind, I hope, when you grow older:  as yet
you are but a little untaught girl."
"But I feel this, Helen; I must dislike those who, whatever I do
to please them, persist in disliking me; I must resist those who
punish me unjustly.  It is as natural as that I should love those
who show me affection, or submit to punishment when I feel it is
deserved."
"Heathens and savage tribes hold that doctrine, but Christians and
civilised nations disown it."
"How?  I don't understand."
"It is not violence that best overcomes hate -- nor vengeance that
most certainly heals injury."
"What then?"
"Read the New Testament, and observe what Christ says, and how He
acts; make His word your rule, and His conduct your example."
"What does He say?"
"Love your enemies; bless them that curse you; do good to them that
hate you and despitefully use you."
"Then I should love Mrs. Reed, which I cannot do; I should bless
her son John, which is impossible."
In her turn, Helen Burns asked me to explain, and I proceeded
forthwith to pour out, in my own way, the tale of my sufferings
and resentments.  Bitter and truculent when excited, I spoke as I
felt, without reserve or softening.
Helen heard me patiently to the end:  I expected she would then
make a remark, but she said nothing.
"Well," I asked impatiently, "is not Mrs. Reed a hard-hearted, bad
woman?"
"She has been unkind to you, no doubt; because you see, she
dislikes your cast of character, as Miss Scatcherd does mine; but
how minutely you remember all she has done and said to you!  What
a singularly deep impression her injustice seems to have made
on your heart!  No ill-usage so brands its record on my feelings.
Would you not be happier if you tried to forget her severity,
together with the passionate emotions it excited?  Life appears
to me too short to be spent in nursing animosity or registering
wrongs.  We are, and must be, one and all, burdened with faults in
this world:  but the time will soon come when, I trust, we shall
put them off in putting off our corruptible bodies; when debasement
and sin will fall from us with this cumbrous frame of flesh, and
only the spark of the spirit will remain, -- the impalpable principle
of light and thought, pure as when it left the Creator to inspire
the creature:  whence it came it will return; perhaps again to
be communicated to some being higher than man -- perhaps to pass
through gradations of glory, from the pale human soul to brighten
to the seraph!  Surely it will never, on the contrary, be suffered
to degenerate from man to fiend?  No; I cannot believe that:  I
hold another creed:  which no one ever taught me, and which I seldom
mention; but in which I delight, and to which I cling:  for it
extends hope to all:  it makes Eternity a rest -- a mighty home, not
a terror and an abyss.  Besides, with this creed, I can so clearly
distinguish between the criminal and his crime; I can so sincerely
forgive the first while I abhor the last:  with this creed revenge
never worries my heart, degradation never too deeply disgusts me,
injustice never crushes me too low:  I live in calm, looking to
the end."
Helen's head, always drooping, sank a little lower as she finished
this sentence.  I saw by her look she wished no longer to talk
to me, but rather to converse with her own thoughts.  She was not
allowed much time for meditation:  a monitor, a great rough girl,
presently came up, exclaiming in a strong Cumberland accent -
"Helen Burns, if you don't go and put your drawer in order, and
fold up your work this minute, I'll tell Miss Scatcherd to come
and look at it!"
Helen sighed as her reverie fled, and getting up, obeyed the monitor
without reply as without delay.
