
"How long did you reside with him and his sisters after the cousinship
was discovered?"
"Five months."
"Did Rivers spend much time with the ladies of his family?"
"Yes; the back parlour was both his study and ours:  he sat near
the window, and we by the table."
"Did he study much?"
"A good deal."
"What?"
"Hindostanee."
"And what did you do meantime?"
"I learnt German, at first."
"Did he teach you?"
"He did not understand German."
"Did he teach you nothing?"
"A little Hindostanee."
"Rivers taught you Hindostanee?"
"Yes, sir."
"And his sisters also?"
"No."
"Only you?"
"Only me."
"Did you ask to learn?"
"No."
"He wished to teach you?"
"Yes."
A second pause.
"Why did he wish it?  Of what use could Hindostanee be to you?"
"He intended me to go with him to India."
"Ah!  here I reach the root of the matter.  He wanted you to marry
him?"
"He asked me to marry him."
"That is a fiction -- an impudent invention to vex me."
"I beg your pardon, it is the literal truth:  he asked me more than
once, and was as stiff about urging his point as ever you could
be."
"Miss Eyre, I repeat it, you can leave me.  How often am I to say
the same thing?  Why do you remain pertinaciously perched on my
knee, when I have given you notice to quit?"
"Because I am comfortable there."
"No, Jane, you are not comfortable there, because your heart is not
with me:  it is with this cousin -- this St. John.  Oh, till this
moment, I thought my little Jane was all mine!  I had a belief she
loved me even when she left me:  that was an atom of sweet in much
bitter.  Long as we have been parted, hot tears as I have wept over
our separation, I never thought that while I was mourning her, she
was loving another!  But it is useless grieving.  Jane, leave me:
go and marry Rivers."
"Shake me off, then, sir, -- push me away, for I'll not leave you
of my own accord."
"Jane, I ever like your tone of voice:  it still renews hope, it
sounds so truthful.  When I hear it, it carries me back a year.  I
forget that you have formed a new tie.  But I am not a fool -- go -- "
"Where must I go, sir?"
"Your own way -- with the husband you have chosen."
"Who is that?"
"You know -- this St. John Rivers."
"He is not my husband, nor ever will be.  He does not love me:  I
do not love him.  He loves (as he CAN love, and that is not as you
love) a beautiful young lady called Rosamond.  He wanted to marry
me only because he thought I should make a suitable missionary's
wife, which she would not have done.  He is good and great, but
severe; and, for me, cold as an iceberg.  He is not like you, sir:
I am not happy at his side, nor near him, nor with him.  He has no
indulgence for me -- no fondness.  He sees nothing attractive in
me; not even youth -- only a few useful mental points. -- Then I
must leave you, sir, to go to him?"
I shuddered involuntarily, and clung instinctively closer to my
blind but beloved master.  He smiled.
"What, Jane!  Is this true?  Is such really the state of matters
between you and Rivers?"
"Absolutely, sir!  Oh, you need not be jealous!  I wanted to tease
you a little to make you less sad:  I thought anger would be better
than grief.  But if you wish me to love you, could you but see how
much I DO love you, you would be proud and content.  All my heart
is yours, sir:  it belongs to you; and with you it would remain,
were fate to exile the rest of me from your presence for ever."
Again, as he kissed me, painful thoughts darkened his aspect.  "My
scarred vision!  My crippled strength!"  he murmured regretfully.
I caressed, in order to soothe him.  I knew of what he was thinking,
and wanted to speak for him, but dared not.  As he turned aside
his face a minute, I saw a tear slide from under the sealed eyelid,
and trickle down the manly cheek.  My heart swelled.
"I am no better than the old lightning-struck chestnut-tree in
Thornfield orchard," he remarked ere long.  "And what right would
that ruin have to bid a budding woodbine cover its decay with
freshness?"
"You are no ruin, sir -- no lightning-struck tree:  you are green
and vigorous.  Plants will grow about your roots, whether you ask
them or not, because they take delight in your bountiful shadow;
and as they grow they will lean towards you, and wind round you,
because your strength offers them so safe a prop."
Again he smiled:  I gave him comfort.
"You speak of friends, Jane?"  he asked.
