
MRS. ALLONBY.  Do you know, Lady Caroline, I don't think the
frivolity of the wife has ever anything to do with it. More
marriages are ruined nowadays by the common sense of the husband
than by anything else.  How can a woman be expected to be happy
with a man who insists on treating her as if she were a perfectly
rational being?
LADY HUNSTANTON.  My dear!
MRS. ALLONBY.  Man, poor, awkward, reliable, necessary man belongs
to a sex that has been rational for millions and millions of years.
He can't help himself.  It is in his race.  The History of Woman is
very different.  We have always been picturesque protests against
the mere existence of common sense.  We saw its dangers from the
first.
LADY STUTFIELD.  Yes, the common sense of husbands is certainly
most, most trying.  Do tell me your conception of the Ideal
Husband.  I think it would be so very, very helpful.
MRS. ALLONBY.  The Ideal Husband?  There couldn't be such a thing.
The institution is wrong.
LADY STUTFIELD.  The Ideal Man, then, in his relations to US.
LADY CAROLINE.  He would probably be extremely realistic.
MRS. CAROLINE.  The Ideal Man!  Oh, the Ideal Man should talk to us
as if we were goddesses, and treat us as if we were children.  He
should refuse all our serious requests, and gratify every one of
our whims.  He should encourage us to have caprices, and forbid us
to have missions.  He should always say much more than he means,
and always mean much more than he says.
LADY HUNSTANTON.  But how could he do both, dear?
MRS. ALLONBY.  He should never run down other pretty women.  That
would show he had no taste, or make one suspect that he had too
much.  No; he should be nice about them all, but say that somehow
they don't attract him.
LADY STUTFIELD.  Yes, that is always very, very pleasant to hear
about other women.
MRS. ALLONBY.  If we ask him a question about anything, he should
give us an answer all about ourselves.  He should invariably praise
us for whatever qualities he knows we haven't got.  But he should
be pitiless, quite pitiless, in reproaching us for the virtues that
we have never dreamed of possessing.  He should never believe that
we know the use of useful things.  That would be unforgiveable.
But he should shower on us everything we don't want.
LADY CAROLINE.  As far as I can see, he is to do nothing but pay
bills and compliments.
MRS. ALLONBY.  He should persistently compromise us in public, and
treat us with absolute respect when we are alone.  And yet he
should be always ready to have a perfectly terrible scene, whenever
we want one, and to become miserable, absolutely miserable, at a
moment's notice, and to overwhelm us with just reproaches in less
than twenty minutes, and to be positively violent at the end of
half an hour, and to leave us for ever at a quarter to eight, when
we have to go and dress for dinner.  And when, after that, one has
seen him for really the last time, and he has refused to take back
the little things he has given one, and promised never to
communicate with one again, or to write one any foolish letters, he
should be perfectly broken-hearted, and telegraph to one all day
long, and send one little notes every half-hour by a private
hansom, and dine quite alone at the club, so that every one should
know how unhappy he was.  And after a whole dreadful week, during
which one has gone about everywhere with one's husband, just to
show how absolutely lonely one was, he may be given a third last
parting, in the evening, and then, if his conduct has been quite
irreproachable, and one has behaved really badly to him, he should
be allowed to admit that he has been entirely in the wrong, and
when he has admitted that, it becomes a woman's duty to forgive,
and one can do it all over again from the beginning, with
variations.
LADY HUNSTANTON.  How clever you are, my dear!  You never mean a
single word you say.
LADY STUTFIELD.  Thank you, thank you.  It has been quite, quite
entrancing.  I must try and remember it all.  There are such a
number of details that are so very, very important.
LADY CAROLINE.  But you have not told us yet what the reward of the
Ideal Man is to be.
MRS. ALLONBY.  His reward?  Oh, infinite expectation.  That is
quite enough for him.
LADY STUTFIELD.  But men are so terribly, terribly exacting, are
they not?
MRS. ALLONBY.  That makes no matter.  One should never surrender.
LADY STUTFIELD.  Not even to the Ideal Man?
MRS. ALLONBY.  Certainly not to him.  Unless, of course, one wants
to grow tired of him.
LADY STUTFIELD.  Oh! . . . yes.  I see that.  It is very, very
helpful.  Do you think, Mrs. Allonby, I shall ever meet the Ideal
Man?  Or are there more than one?
MRS. ALLONBY.  There are just four in London, Lady Stutfield.
LADY HUNSTANTON.  Oh, my dear!
