
MRS. ALLONBY.  [Going over to her.]  What has happened?  Do tell
me.
LADY HUNSTANTON [in a low voice]  I had completely forgotten that
the American young lady has been in the room all the time.  I am
afraid some of this clever talk may have shocked her a little.
MRS. ALLONBY.  Ah, that will do her so much good!
LADY HUNSTANTON.  Let us hope she didn't understand much.  I think
I had better go over and talk to her.  [Rises and goes across to
HESTER WORSLEY.]  Well, dear Miss Worsley. [Sitting down beside
her.]  How quiet you have been in your nice little corner all this
time!  I suppose you have been reading a book?  There are so many
books here in the library.
HESTER.  No, I have been listening to the conversation.
LADY HUNSTANTON.  You mustn't believe everything that was said, you
know, dear.
HESTER.  I didn't believe any of it
LADY HUNSTANTON.  That is quite right, dear.
HESTER.  [Continuing.]  I couldn't believe that any women could
really hold such views of life as I have heard to-night from some
of your guests.  [An awkward pause.]
LADY HUNSTANTON.  I hear you have such pleasant society in America.
Quite like our own in places, my son wrote to me.
HESTER.  There are cliques in America as elsewhere, Lady
Hunstanton.  But true American society consists simply of all the
good women and good men we have in our country.
LADY HUNSTANTON.  What a sensible system, and I dare say quite
pleasant too.  I am afraid in England we have too many artificial
social barriers.  We don't see as much as we should of the middle
and lower classes.
HESTER.  In America we have no lower classes.
LADY HUNSTANTON.  Really?  What a very strange arrangement!
MRS. ALLONBY.  What is that dreadful girl talking about?
LADY STUTFIELD.  She is painfully natural, is she not?
LADY CAROLINE.  There are a great many things you haven't got in
America, I am told, Miss Worsley.  They say you have no ruins, and
no curiosities.
MRS. ALLONBY.  [To LADY STUTFIELD.]  What nonsense!  They have
their mothers and their manners.
HESTER.  The English aristocracy supply us with our curiosities,
Lady Caroline.  They are sent over to us every summer, regularly,
in the steamers, and propose to us the day after they land.  As for
ruins, we are trying to build up something that will last longer
than brick or stone.  [Gets up to take her fan from table.]
LADY HUNSTANTON.  What is that, dear?  Ah, yes, an iron Exhibition,
is it not, at that place that has the curious name?
HESTER.  [Standing by table.]  We are trying to build up life, Lady
Hunstanton, on a better, truer, purer basis than life rests on
here.  This sounds strange to you all, no doubt.  How could it
sound other than strange?  You rich people in England, you don't
know how you are living.  How could you know?  You shut out from
your society the gentle and the good.  You laugh at the simple and
the pure.  Living, as you all do, on others and by them, you sneer
at self-sacrifice, and if you throw bread to the poor, it is merely
to keep them quiet for a season.  With all your pomp and wealth and
art you don't know how to live - you don't even know that.  You
love the beauty that you can see and touch and handle, the beauty
that you can destroy, and do destroy, but of the unseen beauty of
life, of the unseen beauty of a higher life, you know nothing.  You
have lost life's secret.  Oh, your English society seems to me
shallow, selfish, foolish.  It has blinded its eyes, and stopped
its ears.  It lies like a leper in purple.  It sits like a dead
thing smeared with gold.  It is all wrong, all wrong.
LADY STUTFIELD.  I don't think one should know of these things.  It
is not very, very nice, is it?
LADY HUNSTANTON.  My dear Miss Worsley, I thought you liked English
society so much.  You were such a success in it.  And you were so
much admired by the best people.  I quite forget what Lord Henry
Weston said of you - but it was most complimentary, and you know
what an authority he is on beauty.
HESTER.  Lord Henry Weston!  I remember him, Lady Hunstanton.  A
man with a hideous smile and a hideous past.  He is asked
everywhere.  No dinner-party is complete without him.  What of
those whose ruin is due to him?  They are outcasts.  They are
nameless.  If you met them in the street you would turn your head
away.  I don't complain of their punishment.  Let all women who
have sinned be punished.
[MRS. ARBUTHNOT enters from terrace behind in a cloak with a lace
veil over her head.  She hears the last words and starts.]
