
LADY HUNSTANTON.  My dear young lady!
HESTER.  It is right that they should be punished, but don't let
them be the only ones to suffer.  If a man and woman have sinned,
let them both go forth into the desert to love or loathe each other
there.  Let them both be branded.  Set a mark, if you wish, on
each, but don't punish the one and let the other go free.  Don't
have one law for men and another for women.  You are unjust to
women in England.  And till you count what is a shame in a woman to
be an infamy in a man, you will always be unjust, and Right, that
pillar of fire, and Wrong, that pillar of cloud, will be made dim
to your eyes, or be not seen at all, or if seen, not regarded
LADY CAROLINE.  Might I, dear Miss Worsley, as you are standing up,
ask you for my cotton that is just behind you?  Thank you.
LADY HUNSTANTON.  My dear Mrs. Arbuthnot!  I am so pleased you have
come up.  But I didn't hear you announced.
MRS. ALLONBY.  Oh, I came straight in from the terrace, Lady
Hunstanton, just as I was.  You didn't tell me you had a party.
LADY HUNSTANTON.  Not a party.  Only a few guests who are staying
in the house, and whom you must know.  Allow me.  [Tries to help
her.  Rings bell.]  Caroline, this is Mrs. Arbuthnot, one of my
sweetest friends.  Lady Caroline Pontefract, Lady Stutfield, Mrs.
Allonby, and my young American friend, Miss Worsley, who has just
been telling us all how wicked we are.
HESTER.  I am afraid you think I spoke too strongly, Lady
Hunstanton.  But there are some things in England -
LADY HUNSTANTON.  My dear young lady, there was a great deal of
truth, I dare say, in what you said, and you looked very pretty
while you said it, which is much more important, Lord Illingworth
would tell us.  The only point where I thought you were a little
hard was about Lady Caroline's brother, about poor Lord Henry.  He
is really such good company.
[Enter Footman.]
Take Mrs. Arbuthnot's things.
[Exit Footman with wraps.]
HESTER.  Lady Caroline, I had no idea it was your brother.  I am
sorry for the pain I must have caused you - I -
LADY CAROLINE.  My dear Miss Worsley, the only part of your little
speech, if I may so term it, with which I thoroughly agreed, was
the part about my brother.  Nothing that you could possibly say
could be too bad for him.  I regard Henry as infamous, absolutely
infamous.  But I am bound to state, as you were remarking, Jane,
that he is excellent company, and he has one of the best cooks in
London, and after a good dinner one can forgive anybody, even one's
own relations.
LADY HUNSTANTON [to MISS WORSLEY]  Now, do come, dear, and make
friends with Mrs. Arbuthnot.  She is one of the good, sweet, simple
people you told us we never admitted into society.  I am sorry to
say Mrs. Arbuthnot comes very rarely to me.  But that is not my
fault.
MRS. ALLONBY.  What a bore it is the men staying so long after
dinner!  I expect they are saying the most dreadful things about
us.
LADY STUTFIELD.  Do you really think so?
MRS. ALLONBY.  I was sure of it.
LADY STUTFIELD.  How very, very horrid of them!  Shall we go onto
the terrace?
MRS. ALLONBY.  Oh, anything to get away from the dowagers and the
dowdies.  [Rises and goes with LADY STUTFIELD to door L.C.]  We are
only going to look at the stars, Lady Hunstanton.
LADY HUNSTANTON.  You will find a great many, dear, a great many.
But don't catch cold.  [To MRS. ARBUTHNOT.]  We shall all miss
Gerald so much, dear Mrs. Arbuthnot.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  But has Lord Illingworth really offered to make
Gerald his secretary?
LADY HUNSTANTON.  Oh, yes!  He has been most charming about it.  He
has the highest possible opinion of your boy.  You don't know Lord
Illingworth, I believe, dear.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  I have never met him.
LADY HUNSTANTON.  You know him by name, no doubt?
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  I am afraid I don't.  I live so much out of the
world, and see so few people.  I remember hearing years ago of an
old Lord Illingworth who lived in Yorkshire, I think.
