
LORD ILLINGWORTH.  I had no expectations then.  And besides,
Rachel, I wasn't much older than you were.  I was only twenty-two.
I was twenty-one, I believe, when the whole thing began in your
father's garden.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  When a man is old enough to do wrong he should be
old enough to do right also.
LORD ILLINGWORTH.  My dear Rachel, intellectual generalities are
always interesting, but generalities in morals mean absolutely
nothing.  As for saying I left our child to starve, that, of
course, is untrue and silly.  My mother offered you six hundred a
year.  But you wouldn't take anything.  You simply disappeared, and
carried the child away with you.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  I wouldn't have accepted a penny from her.  Your
father was different.  He told you, in my presence, when we were in
Paris, that it was your duty to marry me.
LORD ILLINGWORTH.  Oh, duty is what one expects from others, it is
not what one does oneself.  Of course, I was influenced by my
mother.  Every man is when he is young.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  I am glad to hear you say so.  Gerald shall
certainly not go away with you.
LORD ILLINGWORTH.  What nonsense, Rachel!
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  Do you think I would allow my son -
LORD ILLINGWORTH.  OUR son.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  My son [LORD ILLINGWORTH shrugs his shoulders] -
to go away with the man who spoiled my youth, who ruined my life,
who has tainted every moment of my days?  You don't realise what my
past has been in suffering and in shame.
LORD ILLINGWORTH.  My dear Rachel, I must candidly say that I think
Gerald's future considerably more important than your past.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  Gerald cannot separate his future from my past.
LORD ILLINGWORTH.  That is exactly what he should do.  That is
exactly what you should help him to do.  What a typical woman you
are!  You talk sentimentally, and you are thoroughly selfish the
whole time.  But don't let us have a scene.  Rachel, I want you to
look at this matter from the common-sense point of view, from the
point of view of what is best for our son, leaving you and me out
of the question.  What is our son at present?  An underpaid clerk
in a small Provincial Bank in a third-rate English town.  If you
imagine he is quite happy in such a position, you are mistaken.  He
is thoroughly discontented.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  He was not discontented till he met you.  You have
made him so.
LORD ILLINGWORTH.  Of course, I made him so.  Discontent is the
first step in the progress of a man or a nation.  But I did not
leave him with a mere longing for things he could not get.  No, I
made him a charming offer.  He jumped at it, I need hardly say.
Any young man would.  And now, simply because it turns out that I
am the boy's own father and he my own son, you propose practically
to ruin his career.  That is to say, if I were a perfect stranger,
you would allow Gerald to go away with me, but as he is my own
flesh and blood you won't.  How utterly illogical you are!
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  I will not allow him to go.
LORD ILLINGWORTH.  How can you prevent it?  What excuse can you
give to him for making him decline such an offer as mine?  I won't
tell him in what relations I stand to him, I need hardly say.  But
you daren't tell him.  You know that.  Look how you have brought
him up.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  I have brought him up to be a good man.
LORD ILLINGWORTH.  Quite so.  And what is the result?  You have
educated him to be your judge if he ever finds you out.  And a
bitter, an unjust judge he will be to you.  Don't be deceived,
Rachel.  Children begin by loving their parents.  After a time they
judge them.  Rarely, if ever, do they forgive them.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  George, don't take my son away from me.  I have
had twenty years of sorrow, and I have only had one thing to love
me, only one thing to love.  You have had a life of joy, and
pleasure, and success.  You have been quite happy, you have never
thought of us.  There was no reason, according to your views of
life, why you should have remembered us at all.  Your meeting us
was a mere accident, a horrible accident.  Forget it.  Don't come
now, and rob me of . . . of all I have in the whole world.  You are
so rich in other things.  Leave me the little vineyard of my life;
leave me the walled-in garden and the well of water; the ewe-lamb
God sent me, in pity or in wrath, oh! leave me that.  George, don't
take Gerald from me.
LORD ILLINGWORTH.  Rachel, at the present moment you are not
necessary to Gerald's career; I am.  There is nothing more to be
said on the subject.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  I will not let him go.
LORD ILLINGWORTH.  Here is Gerald.  He has a right to decide for
himself.
[Enter GERALD.]
GERALD.  Well, dear mother, I hope you have settled it all with
Lord Illingworth?
