
GERALD.  My mother is awfully conscientious, Lord Illingworth, and
I know she doesn't think I am educated enough to be your secretary.
She is perfectly right, too.  I was fearfully idle when I was at
school, and I couldn't pass an examination now to save my life.
LORD ILLINGWORTH.  My dear Gerald, examinations are of no value
whatsoever.  If a man is a gentleman, he knows quite enough, and if
he is not a gentleman, whatever he knows is bad for him.
GERALD.  But I am so ignorant of the world, Lord Illingworth.
LORD ILLINGWORTH.  Don't be afraid, Gerald.  Remember that you've
got on your side the most wonderful thing in the world - youth!
There is nothing like youth.  The middle-aged are mortgaged to
Life.  The old are in life's lumber-room.  But youth is the Lord of
Life.  Youth has a kingdom waiting for it.  Every one is born a
king, and most people die in exile, like most kings.  To win back
my youth, Gerald, there is nothing I wouldn't do - except take
exercise, get up early, or be a useful member of the community.
GERALD.  But you don't call yourself old, Lord Illingworth?
LORD ILLINGWORTH.  I am old enough to be your father, Gerald.
GERALD.  I don't remember my father; he died years ago.
LORD ILLINGWORTH.  So Lady Hunstanton told me.
GERALD.  It is very curious, my mother never talks to me about my
father.  I sometimes think she must have married beneath her.
LORD ILLINGWORTH.  [Winces slightly.]  Really?  [Goes over and puts
his hand on GERALD'S shoulder.]  You have missed not having a
father, I suppose, Gerald?
GERALD.  Oh, no; my mother has been so good to me.  No one ever had
such a mother as I have had.
LORD ILLINGWORTH.  I am quite sure of that.  Still I should imagine
that most mothers don't quite understand their sons.  Don't
realise, I mean, that a son has ambitions, a desire to see life, to
make himself a name.  After all, Gerald, you couldn't be expected
to pass all your life in such a hole as Wrockley, could you?
GERALD.  Oh, no!  It would be dreadful!
LORD ILLINGWORTH.  A mother's love is very touching, of course, but
it is often curiously selfish.  I mean, there is a good deal of
selfishness in it.
GERALD.  [Slowly.]  I suppose there is.
LORD ILLINGWORTH.  Your mother is a thoroughly good woman.  But
good women have such limited views of life, their horizon is so
small, their interests are so petty, aren't they?
GERALD.  They are awfully interested, certainly, in things we don't
care much about.
LORD ILLINGWORTH.  I suppose your mother is very religious, and
that sort of thing.
GERALD.  Oh, yes, she's always going to church.
LORD ILLINGWORTH.  Ah! she is not modern, and to be modern is the
only thing worth being nowadays.  You want to be modern, don't you,
Gerald?  You want to know life as it really is.  Not to be put of
with any old-fashioned theories about life.  Well, what you have to
do at present is simply to fit yourself for the best society.  A
man who can dominate a London dinner-table can dominate the world.
The future belongs to the dandy.  It is the exquisites who are
going to rule.
GERALD.  I should like to wear nice things awfully, but I have
always been told that a man should not think too much about his
clothes.
LORD ILLINGWORTH.  People nowadays are so absolutely superficial
that they don't understand the philosophy of the superficial.  By
the way, Gerald, you should learn how to tie your tie better.
Sentiment is all very well for the button-hole.  But the essential
thing for a necktie is style.  A well-tied tie is the first serious
step in life.
GERALD.  [Laughing.]  I might be able to learn how to tie a tie,
Lord Illingworth, but I should never be able to talk as you do.  I
don't know how to talk.
LORD ILLINGWORTH.  Oh! talk to every woman as if you loved her, and
to every man as if he bored you, and at the end of your first
season you will have the reputation of possessing the most perfect
social tact.
GERALD.  But it is very difficult to get into society isn't it?
