
LADY  HUNSTANTON.  Ah, I am afraid the heat was too much for her
last night.  I think there must have been thunder in the air.  Or
perhaps it was the music.  Music makes one feel so romantic - at
least it always gets on one's nerves.
MRS. ALLONBY.  It's the same thing, nowadays.
LADY HUNSTANTON.  I am so glad I don't know what you mean, dear.  I
am afraid you mean something wrong.  Ah, I see you're examining
Mrs. Arbuthnot's pretty room.  Isn't it nice and old-fashioned?
MRS. ALLONBY.  [Surveying the room through her lorgnette.]  It
looks quite the happy English home.
LADY HUNSTANTON.  That's just the word, dear; that just describes
it.  One feels your mother's good influence in everything she has
about her, Gerald.
MRS. ALLONBY.  Lord Illingworth says that all influence is bad, but
that a good influence is the worst in the world.
LADY HUNSTANTON.  When Lord Illingworth knows Mrs. Arbuthnot better
he will change his mind.  I must certainly bring him here.
MRS. ALLONBY.  I should like to see Lord Illingworth in a happy
English home.
LADY HUNSTANTON.  It would do him a great deal of good, dear.  Most
women in London, nowadays, seem to furnish their rooms with nothing
but orchids, foreigners, and French novels.  But here we have the
room of a sweet saint.  Fresh natural flowers, books that don't
shock one, pictures that one can look at without blushing.
MRS. ALLONBY.  But I like blushing.
LADY HUNSTANTON.  Well, there IS a good deal to be said for
blushing, if one can do it at the proper moment.  Poor dear
Hunstanton used to tell me I didn't blush nearly often enough.  But
then he was so very particular.  He wouldn't let me know any of his
men friends, except those who were over seventy, like poor Lord
Ashton: who afterwards, by the way, was brought into the Divorce
Court.  A most unfortunate case.
MRS. ALLONBY.  I delight in men over seventy.  They always offer
one the devotion of a lifetime.  I think seventy an ideal age for a
man.
LADY HUNSTANTON.  She is quite incorrigible, Gerald, isn't she?
By-the-by, Gerald, I hope your dear mother will come and see me
more often now.  You and Lord Illingworth start almost immediately,
don't you?
GERALD.  I have given up my intention of being Lord Illingworth's
secretary.
LADY HUNSTANTON.  Surely not, Gerald!  It would be most unwise of
you.  What reason can you have?
GERALD.  I don't think I should be suitable for the post.
MRS. ALLONBY.  I wish Lord Illingworth would ask me to be his
secretary.  But he says I am not serious enough.
LADY HUNSTANTON.  My dear, you really mustn't talk like that in
this house.  Mrs. Arbuthnot doesn't know anything about the wicked
society in which we all live.  She won't go into it.  She is far
too good.  I consider it was a great honour her coming to me last
night.  It gave quite an atmosphere of respectability to the party.
MRS. ALLONBY.  Ah, that must have been what you thought was thunder
in the air.
LADY HUNSTANTON.  My dear, how can you say that?  There is no
resemblance between the two things at all.  But really, Gerald,
what do you mean by not being suitable?
GERALD.  Lord Illingworth's views of life and mine are too
different.
LADY HUNSTANTON.  But, my dear Gerald, at your age you shouldn't
have any views of life.  They are quite out of place.  You must be
guided by others in this matter.  Lord Illingworth has made you the
most flattering offer, and travelling with him you would see the
world - as much of it, at least, as one should look at - under the
best auspices possible, and stay with all the right people, which
is so important at this solemn moment in your career.
GERALD.  I don't want to see the world: I've seen enough of it.
MRS. ALLONBY.  I hope you don't think you have exhausted life, Mr.
Arbuthnot.  When a man says that, one knows that life has exhausted
him.
GERALD.  I don't wish to leave my mother.
