
GERALD.  I have written to Lord Illingworth to tell him that he
must marry you.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  Marry me?
GERALD.  Mother, I will force him to do it.  The wrong that has
been done you must be repaired.  Atonement must be made.  Justice
may be slow, mother, but it comes in the end.  In a few days you
shall be Lord Illingworth's lawful wife.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  But, Gerald -
GERALD.  I will insist upon his doing it.  I will make him do it:
he will not dare to refuse.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  But, Gerald, it is I who refuse.  I will not marry
Lord Illingworth.
GERALD.  Not marry him?  Mother!
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  I will not marry him.
GERALD.  But you don't understand: it is for your sake I am
talking, not for mine.  This marriage, this necessary marriage,
this marriage which for obvious reasons must inevitably take place,
will not help me, will not give me a name that will be really,
rightly mine to bear.  But surely it will be something for you,
that you, my mother, should, however late, become the wife of the
man who is my father.  Will not that be something?
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  I will not marry him.
GERALD.  Mother, you must.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  I will not.  You talk of atonement for a wrong
done.  What atonement can be made to me?  There is no atonement
possible.  I am disgraced: he is not.  That is all.  It is the
usual history of a man and a woman as it usually happens, as it
always happens.  And the ending is the ordinary ending.  The woman
suffers.  The man goes free.
GERALD.  I don't know if that is the ordinary ending, mother: I
hope it is not.  But your life, at any rate, shall not end like
that.  The man shall make whatever reparation is possible.  It is
not enough.  It does not wipe out the past, I know that.  But at
least it makes the future better, better for you, mother.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  I refuse to marry Lord Illingworth.
GERALD.  If he came to you himself and asked you to be his wife you
would give him a different answer.  Remember, he is my father.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  If he came himself, which he will not do, my
answer would be the same.  Remember I am your mother.
GERALD.  Mother, you make it terribly difficult for me by talking
like that; and I can't understand why you won't look at this matter
from the right, from the only proper standpoint.  It is to take
away the bitterness out of your life, to take away the shadow that
lies on your name, that this marriage must take place.  There is no
alternative: and after the marriage you and I can go away together.
But the marriage must take place first.  It is a duty that you owe,
not merely to yourself, but to all other women - yes: to all the
other women in the world, lest he betray more.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  I owe nothing to other women.  There is not one of
them to help me.  There is not one woman in the world to whom I
could go for pity, if I would take it, or for sympathy, if I could
win it.  Women are hard on each other.  That girl, last night, good
though she is, fled from the room as though I were a tainted thing.
She was right.  I am a tainted thing.  But my wrongs are my own,
and I will bear them alone.  I must bear them alone.  What have
women who have not sinned to do with me, or I with them?  We do not
understand each other.
[Enter HESTER behind.]
GERALD.  I implore you to do what I ask you.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  What son has ever asked of his mother to make so
hideous a sacrifice?  None.
GERALD.  What mother has ever refused to marry the father of her
own child?  None.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  Let me be the first, then.  I will not do it.
GERALD.  Mother, you believe in religion, and you brought me up to
believe in it also.  Well, surely your religion, the religion that
you taught me when I was a boy, mother, must tell you that I am
right.  You know it, you feel it.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  I do not know it.  I do not feel it, nor will I
ever stand before God's altar and ask God's blessing on so hideous
a mockery as a marriage between me and George Harford.  I will not
say the words the Church bids us to say.  I will not say them.  I
dare not.  How could I swear to love the man I loathe, to honour
him who wrought you dishonour, to obey him who, in his mastery,
made me to sin?  No: marriage is a sacrament for those who love
each other.  It is not for such as him, or such as me.  Gerald, to
save you from the world's sneers and taunts I have lied to the
world.  For twenty years I have lied to the world.  I could not
tell the world the truth.  Who can, ever?  But not for my own sake
will I lie to God, and in God's presence.  No, Gerald, no ceremony,
Church-hallowed or State-made, shall ever bind me to George
Harford.  It may be that I am too bound to him already, who,
robbing me, yet left me richer, so that in the mire of my life I
found the pearl of price, or what I thought would be so.
