
GERALD.  I don't understand you now.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  Men don't understand what mothers are.  I am no
different from other women except in the wrong done me and the
wrong I did, and my very heavy punishments and great disgrace.  And
yet, to bear you I had to look on death.  To nurture you I had to
wrestle with it.  Death fought with me for you.  All women have to
fight with death to keep their children.  Death, being childless,
wants our children from us.  Gerald, when you were naked I clothed
you, when you were hungry I gave you food.  Night and day all that
long winter I tended you.  No office is too mean, no care too lowly
for the thing we women love - and oh! how I loved YOU.  Not Hannah,
Samuel more.  And you needed love, for you were weakly, and only
love could have kept you alive.  Only love can keep any one alive.
And boys are careless often and without thinking give pain, and we
always fancy that when they come to man's estate and know us better
they will repay us.  But it is not so.  The world draws them from
our side, and they make friends with whom they are happier than
they are with us, and have amusements from which we are barred, and
interests that are not ours: and they are unjust to us often, for
when they find life bitter they blame us for it, and when they find
it sweet we do not taste its sweetness with them . . . You made
many friends and went into their houses and were glad with them,
and I, knowing my secret, did not dare to follow, but stayed at
home and closed the door, shut out the sun and sat in darkness.
What should I have done in honest households?  My past was ever
with me. . . . And you thought I didn't care for the pleasant
things of life.  I tell you I longed for them, but did not dare to
touch them, feeling I had no right.  You thought I was happier
working amongst the poor.  That was my mission, you imagined.  It
was not, but where else was I to go?  The sick do not ask if the
hand that smooths their pillow is pure, nor the dying care if the
lips that touch their brow have known the kiss of sin.  It was you
I thought of all the time; I gave to them the love you did not
need: lavished on them a love that was not theirs . . . And you
thought I spent too much of my time in going to Church, and in
Church duties.  But where else could I turn?  God's house is the
only house where sinners are made welcome, and you were always in
my heart, Gerald, too much in my heart.  For, though day after day,
at morn or evensong, I have knelt in God's house, I have never
repented of my sin.  How could I repent of my sin when you, my
love, were its fruit!  Even now that you are bitter to me I cannot
repent.  I do not.  You are more to me than innocence.  I would
rather be your mother - oh! much rather! - than have been always
pure . . . Oh, don't you see? don't you understand?  It is my
dishonour that has made you so dear to me.  It is my disgrace that
has bound you so closely to me.  It is the price I paid for you -
the price of soul and body - that makes me love you as I do.  Oh,
don't ask me to do this horrible thing.  Child of my shame, be
still the child of my shame!
GERALD.  Mother, I didn't know you loved me so much as that.  And I
will be a better son to you than I have been.  And you and I must
never leave each other . . . but, mother . . . I can't help it . .
. you must become my father's wife.  You must marry him.  It is
your duty.
HESTER.  [Running forwards and embracing MRS. ARBUTHNOT.]  No, no;
you shall not.  That would be real dishonour, the first you have
ever known.  That would be real disgrace: the first to touch you.
Leave him and come with me.  There are other countries than England
. . . Oh! other countries over sea, better, wiser, and less unjust
lands.  The world is very wide and very big.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  No, not for me.  For me the world is shrivelled to
a palm's breadth, and where I walk there are thorns.
HESTER.  It shall not be so.  We shall somewhere find green valleys
and fresh waters, and if we weep, well, we shall weep together.
Have we not both loved him?
GERALD.  Hester!
HESTER.  [Waving him back.]  Don't, don't!  You cannot love me at
all, unless you love her also.  You cannot honour me, unless she's
holier to you.  In her all womanhood is martyred.  Not she alone,
but all of us are stricken in her house.
GERALD.  Hester, Hester, what shall I do?
HESTER.  Do you respect the man who is your father?
GERALD.  Respect him?  I despise him!  He is infamous.
HESTER.  I thank you for saving me from him last night.
GERALD.  Ah, that is nothing.  I would die to save you.  But you
don't tell me what to do now!
HESTER.  Have I not thanked you for saving ME?
GERALD.  But what should I do?
HESTER.  Ask your own heart, not mine.  I never had a mother to
save, or shame.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  He is hard - he is hard.  Let me go away.
GERALD.  [Rushes over and kneels down bedside his mother.]  Mother,
forgive me: I have been to blame.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  Don't kiss my hands: they are cold.  My heart is
cold: something has broken it.
HESTER,  Ah, don't say that.  Hearts live by being wounded.
Pleasure may turn a heart to stone, riches may make it callous, but
sorrow - oh, sorrow cannot break it.  Besides, what sorrows have
you now?  Why, at this moment you are more dear to him than ever,
DEAR though you have BEEN, and oh! how dear you HAVE been always.
Ah! be kind to him.
GERALD.  You are my mother and my father all in one.  I need no
second parent.  It was for you I spoke, for you alone.  Oh, say
something, mother.  Have I but found one love to lose another?
Don't tell me that.  O mother, you are cruel.  [Gets up and flings
himself sobbing on a sofa.]
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  [To HESTER.]  But has he found indeed another
love?
HESTER.  You know I have loved him always.
MRS. ARBUTHNOT.  But we are very poor.
HESTER.  Who, being loved, is poor?  Oh, no one.  I hate my riches.
They are a burden.  Let him share it with me.
