
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  You mean you can tell Bentley about me if I do.
HYPATIA.  Even if there wasnt any Bentley:  even if you didnt care
(and I really dont see why you should care so much) still, we never
could be on conventional terms with one another again.  Besides, Ive
got a feeling for you:  almost a ghastly sort of love for you.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  _[shrinking]_  I beg you--no, please.
HYPATIA.  Oh, it's nothing at all flattering:  and, of course, nothing
wrong, as I suppose youd call it.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Please believe that I know that.  When men of my
age--
HYPATIA.  _[impatiently]_  Oh, do talk about yourself when you mean
yourself, and not about men of your age.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  I'll put it as bluntly as I can.  When, as you say,
I made an utter fool of myself, believe me, I made a poetic fool of
myself.  I was seduced, not by appetites which, thank Heaven, Ive long
outlived:  not even by the desire of second childhood for a child
companion, but by the innocent impulse to place the delicacy and
wisdom and spirituality of my age at the affectionate service of your
youth for a few years, at the end of which you would be a grown,
strong, formed--widow.  Alas, my dear, the delicacy of age reckoned,
as usual, without the derision and cruelty of youth.  You told me that
you didnt want to be an old man's nurse, and that you didnt want to
have undersized children like Bentley.  It served me right:  I dont
reproach you:  I was an old fool.  But how you can imagine, after
that, that I can suspect you of the smallest feeling for me except the
inevitable feeling of early youth for late age, or imagine that I have
any feeling for you except one of shrinking humiliation, I cant
understand.
HYPATIA.  I dont blame you for falling in love with me.  I shall be
grateful to you all my life for it, because that was the first time
that anything really interesting happened to me.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Do you mean to tell me that nothing of that kind had
ever happened before? that no man had ever--
HYPATIA.  Oh, lots.  Thats part of the routine of life here:  the very
dullest part of it.  The young man who comes a-courting is as familiar
an incident in my life as coffee for breakfast.  Of course, hes too
much of a gentleman to misbehave himself; and I'm too much of a lady
to let him; and hes shy and sheepish; and I'm correct and
self-possessed; and at last, when I can bear it no longer, I either
frighten him off, or give him a chance of proposing, just to see how
he'll do it, and refuse him because he does it in the same silly way
as all the rest.  You dont call that an event in one's life, do you?
With you it was different.  I should as soon have expected the North
Pole to fall in love with me as you.  You know I'm only a
linen-draper's daughter when all's said.  I was afraid of you:  you, a
great man! a lord! and older than my father.  And then what a
situation it was!  Just think of it!  I was engaged to your son; and
you knew nothing about it.  He was afraid to tell you:  he brought you
down here because he thought if he could throw us together I could get
round you because I was such a ripping girl.  We arranged it all:  he
and I.  We got Papa and Mamma and Johnny out of the way splendidly;
and then Bentley took himself off, and left us--you and me!--to take a
walk through the heather and admire the scenery of Hindhead.  You
never dreamt that it was all a plan:  that what made me so nice was
the way I was playing up to my destiny as the sweet girl that was to
make your boy happy.  And then! and then!  _[She rises to dance and
clap her hands in her glee]._
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  _[shuddering]_  Stop, stop.  Can no woman understand
a man's delicacy?
HYPATIA.  _[revelling in the recollection]_  And then--ha, ha!--you
proposed.  You!  A father!  For your son's girl!
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Stop, I tell you.  Dont profane what you dont
understand.
HYPATIA.  That was something happening at last with a vengeance.  It
was splendid.  It was my first peep behind the scenes.  If I'd been
seventeen I should have fallen in love with you.  Even as it is, I
feel quite differently towards you from what I do towards other old
men.  So _[offering her hand]_ you may kiss my hand if that will be
any fun for you.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  _[rising and recoiling to the table, deeply
revolted]_  No, no, no.  How dare you?  _[She laughs mischievously]._
How callous youth is!  How coarse!  How cynical!  How ruthlessly
cruel!
HYPATIA.  Stuff!  It's only that youre tired of a great many things
Ive never tried.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  It's not alone that.  Ive not forgotten the
brutality of my own boyhood.  But do try to learn, glorious young
beast that you are, that age is squeamish, sentimental, fastidious.
If you cant understand my holier feelings, at least you know the
bodily infirmities of the old.  You know that I darent eat all the
rich things you gobble up at every meal; that I cant bear the noise
and racket and clatter that affect you no more than they affect a
stone.  Well, my soul is like that too.  Spare it:  be gentle with it
_[he involuntarily puts out his hands to plead:  she takes them with a
laugh]._  If you could possibly think of me as half an angel and half
an invalid, we should get on much better together.
HYPATIA.  We get on very well, I think.  Nobody else ever called me a
glorious young beast.  I like that.  Glorious young beast expresses
exactly what I like to be.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  _[extricating his hands and sitting down]_  Where on
earth did you get these morbid tastes?  You seem to have been well
brought up in a normal, healthy, respectable, middle-class family.
Yet you go on like the most unwholesome product of the rankest
Bohemianism.
HYPATIA.  Thats just it.  I'm fed up with--
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Horrible expression.  Dont.
HYPATIA.  Oh, I daresay it's vulgar; but theres no other word for it.
I'm fed up with nice things:  with respectability, with propriety!
When a woman has nothing to do, money and respectability mean that
nothing is ever allowed to happen to her.  I dont want to be good; and
I dont want to be bad:  I just dont want to be bothered about either
good or bad:  I want to be an active verb.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  An active verb?  Oh, I see.  An active verb
signifies to be, to do, or to suffer.
HYPATIA.  Just so:  how clever of you!  I want to be; I want to do;
and I'm game to suffer if it costs that.  But stick here doing nothing
but being good and nice and ladylike I simply wont.  Stay down here
with us for a week; and I'll shew you what it means:  shew it to you
going on day after day, year after year, lifetime after lifetime.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Shew me what?
