
HYPATIA.  Girls withering into ladies.  Ladies withering into old
maids.  Nursing old women.  Running errands for old men.  Good for
nothing else at last.  Oh, you cant imagine the fiendish selfishness
of the old people and the maudlin sacrifice of the young.  It's more
unbearable than any poverty:  more horrible than any
regular-right-down wickedness.  Oh, home! home! parents! family! duty!
how I loathe them!  How I'd like to see them all blown to bits!  The
poor escape.  The wicked escape.  Well, I cant be poor:  we're rolling
in money:  it's no use pretending we're not.  But I can be wicked; and
I'm quite prepared to be.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  You think that easy?
HYPATIA.  Well, isnt it?  Being a man, you ought to know.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  It requires some natural talent, which can no doubt
be cultivated.  It's not really easy to be anything out of the common.
HYPATIA.  Anyhow, I mean to make a fight for living.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Living your own life, I believe the Suffragist
phrase is.
HYPATIA.  Living any life.  Living, instead of withering without even
a gardener to snip you off when youre rotten.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Ive lived an active life; but Ive withered all the
same.
HYPATIA.  No:  youve worn out:  thats quite different.  And youve some
life in you yet or you wouldnt have fallen in love with me.  You can
never imagine how delighted I was to find that instead of being the
correct sort of big panjandrum you were supposed to be, you were
really an old rip like papa.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  No, no:  not about your father:  I really cant bear
it.  And if you must say these terrible things:  these heart-wounding
shameful things, at least find something prettier to call me than an
old rip.
HYPATIA.  Well, what would you call a man proposing to a girl who
might be--
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  His daughter:  yes, I know.
HYPATIA.  I was going to say his granddaughter.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  You always have one more blow to get in.
HYPATIA.  Youre too sensitive.  Did you ever make mud pies when you
were a kid--beg pardon:  a child.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  I hope not.
HYPATIA.  It's a dirty job; but Johnny and I were vulgar enough to
like it.  I like young people because theyre not too afraid of dirt to
live.  Ive grown out of the mud pies; but I like slang; and I like
bustling you up by saying things that shock you; and I'd rather put up
with swearing and smoking than with dull respectability; and there are
lots of things that would just shrivel you up that I think rather
jolly.  Now!
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Ive not the slightest doubt of it.  Dont insist.
HYPATIA.  It's not your ideal, is it?
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  No.
HYPATIA.  Shall I tell you why?  Your ideal is an old woman.  I
daresay shes got a young face; but shes an old woman.  Old, old, old.
Squeamish.  Cant stand up to things.  Cant enjoy things:  not real
things.  Always on the shrink.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  On the shrink!  Detestable expression.
HYPATIA.  Bah! you cant stand even a little thing like that.  What
good are you?  Oh, what good are you?
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Dont ask me.  I dont know.  I dont know.
_Tarleton returns from the vestibule.  Hypatia sits down demurely._
