
HYPATIA.  Well, papa:  have you meditated on your destiny?
TARLETON.  _[puzzled]_  What?  Oh! my destiny.  Gad, I forgot all
about it:  Jock started a rabbit and put it clean out of my head.
Besides, why should I give way to morbid introspection?  It's a sign
of madness.  Read Lombroso.  _[To Lord Summerhays]_  Well, Summerhays,
has my little girl been entertaining you?
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Yes.  She is a wonderful entertainer.
TARLETON.  I think my idea of bringing up a young girl has been rather
a success.  Dont you listen to this, Patsy:  it might make you
conceited.  Shes never been treated like a child.  I always said the
same thing to her mother.  Let her read what she likes.  Let her do
what she likes.  Let her go where she likes.  Eh, Patsy?
HYPATIA.  Oh yes, if there had only been anything for me to do, any
place for me to go, anything I wanted to read.
TARLETON.  There, you see!  Shes not satisfied.  Restless.  Wants
things to happen.  Wants adventures to drop out of the sky.
HYPATIA.  _[gathering up her work]_  If youre going to talk about me
and my education, I'm off.
TARLETON.  Well, well, off with you.  _[To Lord Summerhays]_  Shes
active, like me.  She actually wanted me to put her into the shop.
HYPATIA.  Well, they tell me that the girls there have adventures
sometimes.  _[She goes out through the inner door]_
TARLETON.  She had me there, though she doesnt know it, poor innocent
lamb!  Public scandal exaggerates enormously, of course; but moralize
as you will, superabundant vitality is a physical fact that cant be
talked away.  _[He sits down between the writing table and the
sideboard]._  Difficult question this, of bringing up children.
Between ourselves, it has beaten me.  I never was so surprised in my
life as when I came to know Johnny as a man of business and found out
what he was really like.  How did you manage with your sons?
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Well, I really hadnt time to be a father:  thats the
plain truth of the matter.  Their poor dear mother did the usual thing
while they were with us.  Then of course, Harrow, Cambridge, the usual
routine of their class.  I saw very little of them, and thought very
little about them:  how could I? with a whole province on my hands.
They and I are--acquaintances.  Not perhaps, quite ordinary
acquaintances:  theres a sort of--er--I should almost call it a sort
of remorse about the way we shake hands (when we do shake hands) which
means, I suppose, that we're sorry we dont care more for one another;
and I'm afraid we dont meet oftener than we can help.  We put each
other too much out of countenance.  It's really a very difficult
relation.  To my mind not altogether a natural one.
TARLETON.  _[impressed, as usual]_  Thats an idea, certainly.  I dont
think anybody has ever written about that.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Bentley is the only one who was really my son in any
serious sense.  He was completely spoilt.  When he was sent to a
preparatory school he simply yelled until he was sent home.  Harrow
was out of the question; but we managed to tutor him into Cambridge.
No use:  he was sent down.  By that time my work was over; and I saw a
good deal of him.  But I could do nothing with him--except look on.  I
should have thought your case was quite different.  You keep up the
middle-class tradition:  the day school and the business training
instead of the university.  I believe in the day school part of it.
At all events, you know your own children.
TARLETON.  Do you?  I'm not so sure of it.  Fact is, my dear
Summerhays, once childhood is over, once the little animal has got
past the stage at which it acquires what you might call a sense of
decency, it's all up with the relation between parent and child.  You
cant get over the fearful shyness of it.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Shyness?
TARLETON.  Yes, shyness.  Read Dickens.
LORD SUMMERHAYS _[surprised]_  Dickens!!  Of all authors, Charles
Dickens!  Are you serious?
TARLETON.  I dont mean his books.  Read his letters to his family.
Read any man's letters to his children.  Theyre not human.  Theyre not
about himself or themselves.  Theyre about hotels, scenery, about the
weather, about getting wet and losing the train and what he saw on the
road and all that.  Not a word about himself.  Forced.  Shy.  Duty
letters.  All fit to be published:  that says everything.  I tell you
theres a wall ten feet thick and ten miles high between parent and
child.  I know what I'm talking about.  Ive girls in my employment:
girls and young men.  I had ideas on the subject.  I used to go to the
parents and tell them not to let their children go out into the world
without instruction in the dangers and temptations they were going to
be thrown into.  What did every one of the mothers say to me?  "Oh,
sir, how could I speak of such things to my own daughter?"  The men
said I was quite right; but they didnt do it, any more than I'd been
able to do it myself to Johnny.  I had to leave books in his way; and
I felt just awful when I did it.  Believe me, Summerhays, the relation
between the young and the old should be an innocent relation.  It
should be something they could talk about.  Well, the relation between
parent and child may be an affectionate relation.  It may be a useful
relation.  It may be a necessary relation.  But it can never be an
innocent relation.  Youd die rather than allude to it.  Depend on it,
in a thousand years itll be considered bad form to know who your
father and mother are.  Embarrassing.  Better hand Bentley over to me.
I can look him in the face and talk to him as man to man.  You can
have Johnny.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Thank you.  Ive lived so long in a country where a
man may have fifty sons, who are no more to him than a regiment of
soldiers, that I'm afraid Ive lost the English feeling about it.
TARLETON.  _[restless again]_  You mean Jinghiskahn.  Ah yes.  Good
thing the empire.  Educates us.  Opens our minds.  Knocks the Bible
out of us.  And civilizes the other chaps.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Yes:  it civilizes them.  And it uncivilizes us.
Their gain.  Our loss, Tarleton, believe me, our loss.
TARLETON.  Well, why not?  Averages out the human race.  Makes the
nigger half an Englishman.  Makes the Englishman half a nigger.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Speaking as the unfortunate Englishman in question,
I dont like the process.  If I had my life to live over again, I'd
stay at home and supercivilize myself.
TARLETON.  Nonsense! dont be selfish.  Think how youve improved the
other chaps.  Look at the Spanish empire!  Bad job for Spain, but
splendid for South America.  Look at what the Romans did for Britain!
They burst up and had to clear out; but think of all they taught us!
They were the making of us:  I believe there was a Roman camp on
Hindhead:  I'll shew it to you tomorrow.  Thats the good side of
Imperialism:  it's unselfish.  I despise the Little Englanders:
theyre always thinking about England.  Smallminded.  I'm for the
Parliament of man, the federation of the world.  Read Tennyson.  _[He
settles down again]._  Then theres the great food question.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  _[apprehensively]_  Need we go into that this
afternoon?
