
_Lina goes out with Hypatia, and Percival with Johnny._
MRS TARLETON.  Well, this is a nice thing to happen!  And look at the
greenhouse!  Itll cost thirty pounds to mend it.  People have no right
to do such things.  And you invited them to dinner too!  What sort of
woman is that to have in our house when you know that all Hindhead
will be calling on us to see that aeroplane?  Bunny:  come with me and
help me to get all the people out of the grounds:  I declare they came
running as if theyd sprung up out of the earth _[she makes for the
inner door]._
TARLETON.  No:  dont you trouble, Chickabiddy:  I'll tackle em.
MRS TARLETON.  Indeed youll do nothing of the kind:  youll stay here
quietly with Lord Summerhays.  Youd invite them all to dinner.  Come,
Bunny.  _[She goes out, followed by Bentley.  Lord Summerhays sits
down again]._
TARLETON.  Singularly beautiful woman Summerhays.  What do you make of
her?  She must be a princess.  Whats this family of warriors and
statesmen that risk their lives every day?
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  They are evidently not warriors and statesmen, or
they wouldnt do that.
TARLETON.  Well, then, who the devil are they?
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  I think I know.  The last time I saw that lady, she
did something I should not have thought possible.
TARLETON.  What was that?
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Well, she walked backwards along a taut wire without
a balancing pole and turned a somersault in the middle.  I remember
that her name was Lina, and that the other name was foreign; though I
dont recollect it.
TARLETON.  Szcz!  You couldnt have forgotten that if youd heard it.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  I didnt hear it:  I only saw it on a program.  But
it's clear shes an acrobat.  It explains how she saved Percival.  And
it accounts for her family pride.
TARLETON.  An acrobat, eh?  Good, good, good!  Summerhays:  that
brings her within reach.  Thats better than a princess.  I steeled
this evergreen heart of mine when I thought she was a princess.  Now I
shall let it be touched.  She is accessible.  Good.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  I hope you are not serious.  Remember:  you have a
family.  You have a position.  You are not in your first youth.
TARLETON.  No matter.
     Theres magic in the night
     When the heart is young.
     
My heart is young.  Besides, I'm a married man, not a widower like
you.  A married man can do anything he likes if his wife dont mind.  A
widower cant be too careful.  Not that I would have you think me an
unprincipled man or a bad husband.  I'm not.  But Ive a superabundance
of vitality.  Read Pepys' Diary.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  The woman is your guest, Tarleton.
TARLETON.  Well, is she?  A woman I bring into my house is my guest.
A woman you bring into my house is my guest.  But a woman who drops
bang down out of the sky into my greenhouse and smashes every blessed
pane of glass in it must take her chance.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Still, you know that my name must not be associated
with any scandal.  Youll be careful, wont you?
TARLETON.  Oh Lord, yes.  Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.  I was only joking,
of course.
_Mrs Tarleton comes back through the inner door._
MRS TARLETON.  Well I never!  John:  I dont think that young woman's
right in her head.  Do you know what shes just asked for?
TARLETON.  Champagne?
MRS TARLETON.  No.  She wants a Bible and six oranges.
TARLETON.  What?
