
JOHNNY.  Or he can spend more on it than it brings him in:  thats how
I look at it.  What I say is that everybody's business is nobody's
business.  I hope I'm not a hard man, nor a narrow man, nor unwilling
to pay reasonable taxes, and subscribe in reason to deserving
charities, and even serve on a jury in my turn; and no man can say I
ever refused to help a friend out of a difficulty when he was worth
helping.  But when you ask me to go beyond that, I tell you frankly I
dont see it.  I never did see it, even when I was only a boy, and had
to pretend to take in all the ideas the Governor fed me up with.  I
didnt see it; and I dont see it.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  There is certainly no business reason why you should
take more than your share of the world's work.
JOHNNY.  So I say.  It's really a great encouragement to me to find
you agree with me.  For of course if nobody agrees with you, how are
you to know that youre not a fool?
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Quite so.
JOHNNY.  I wish youd talk to him about it.  It's no use my saying
anything:  I'm a child to him still:  I have no influence.  Besides,
you know how to handle men.  See how you handled me when I was making
a fool of myself about Bunny!
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Not at all.
JOHNNY.  Oh yes I was:  I know I was.  Well, if my blessed father had
come in he'd have told me to control myself.  As if I was losing my
temper on purpose!
_Bentley returns, newly washed.  He beams when he sees his father, and
comes affectionately behind him and pats him on the shoulders._
BENTLEY.  Hel-lo, commander! have you come?  Ive been making a filthy
silly ass of myself here.  I'm awfully sorry, Johnny, old chap:  I beg
your pardon.  Why dont you kick me when I go on like that?
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  As we came through Godalming I thought I heard some
yelling--
BENTLEY.  I should think you did.  Johnny was rather rough on me,
though.  He told me nobody here liked me; and I was silly enough to
believe him.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  And all the women have been kissing you and pitying
you ever since to stop your crying, I suppose.  Baby!
BENTLEY.  I did cry.  But I always feel good after crying:  it
relieves my wretched nerves.  I feel perfectly jolly now.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Not at all ashamed of yourself, for instance?
BENTLEY.  If I started being ashamed of myself I shouldnt have time
for anything else all my life.  I say:  I feel very fit and spry.
Lets all go down and meet the Grand Cham.  _[He goes to the hatstand
and takes down his hat]._
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Does Mr Tarleton like to be called the Grand Cham,
do you think, Bentley?
BENTLEY.  Well, he thinks hes too modest for it.  He calls himself
Plain John.  But you cant call him that in his own office:  besides,
it doesnt suit him:  it's not flamboyant enough.
JOHNNY.  Flam what?
BENTLEY.  Flamboyant.  Lets go and meet him.  Hes telephoned from
Guildford to say hes on the road.  The dear old son is always
telephoning or telegraphing:  he thinks hes hustling along like
anything when hes only sending unnecessary messages.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Thank you:  I should prefer a quiet afternoon.
BENTLEY.  Right O.  I shant press Johnny:  hes had enough of me for
one week-end.  _[He goes out through the pavilion into the grounds]._
JOHNNY.  Not a bad idea, that.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  What?
JOHNNY.  Going to meet the Governor.  You know you wouldnt think it;
but the Governor likes Bunny rather.  And Bunny is cultivating it.  I
shouldnt be surprised if he thought he could squeeze me out one of
these days.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  You dont say so!  Young rascal!  I want to consult
you about him, if you dont mind.  Shall we stroll over to the Gibbet?
Bentley is too fast for me as a walking companion; but I should like a
short turn.
