
HYPATIA.  Dropped down from the sky.  Dont you know that you must
always go on like this when you get the chance?  You must come to the
top of the hill and chase me through the bracken.  You may kiss me if
you catch me.
PERCIVAL.  I shall do nothing of the sort.
HYPATIA.  Yes you will:  you cant help yourself.  Come along.  _[She
seizes his sleeve]._  Fool, fool:  come along.  Dont you want to?
PERCIVAL.  No:  certainly not.  I should never be forgiven if I did
it.
HYPATIA.  Youll never forgive yourself if you dont.
PERCIVAL.  Nonsense.  Youre engaged to Ben.  Ben's my friend.  What do
you take me for?
HYPATIA.  Ben's old.  Ben was born old.  Theyre all old here, except
you and me and the man-woman or woman-man or whatever you call her
that came with you.  They never do anything:  they only discuss
whether what other people do is right.  Come and give them something
to discuss.
PERCIVAL.  I will do nothing incorrect.
HYPATIA.  Oh, dont be afraid, little boy:  youll get nothing but a
kiss; and I'll fight like the devil to keep you from getting that.
But we must play on the hill and race through the heather.
PERCIVAL.  Why?
HYPATIA.  Because we want to, handsome young man.
PERCIVAL.  But if everybody went on in this way--
HYPATIA.  How happy! oh how happy the world would be!
PERCIVAL.  But the consequences may be serious.
HYPATIA.  Nothing is worth doing unless the consequences may be
serious.  My father says so; and I'm my father's daughter.
PERCIVAL.  I'm the son of three fathers.  I mistrust these wild
impulses.
HYPATIA.  Take care.  Youre letting the moment slip.  I feel the first
chill of the wave of prudence.  Save me.
PERCIVAL.  Really, Miss Tarleton _[she strikes him across the face]_
--Damn you!  _[Recovering himself, horrified at his lapse]_  I beg
your pardon; but since weve both forgotten ourselves, youll please
allow me to leave the house.  _[He turns towards the inner door,
having left his cap in the bedroom]._
HYPATIA.  _[standing in his way]_  Are you ashamed of having said
"Damn you" to me?
PERCIVAL.  I had no right to say it.  I'm very much ashamed of it.  I
have already begged your pardon.
HYPATIA.  And youre not ashamed of having said "Really, Miss
Tarleton."
PERCIVAL.  Why should I?
HYPATIA.  O man, man! mean, stupid, cowardly, selfish masculine male
man!  You ought to have been a governess.  I was expelled from school
for saying that the very next person that said "Really, Miss
Tarleton," to me, I would strike her across the face.  You were the
next.
PERCIVAL.  I had no intention of being offensive.  Surely there is
nothing that can wound any lady in--_[He hesitates, not quite
convinced]._  At least--er--I really didnt mean to be disagreeable.
HYPATIA.  Liar.
