
TARLETON.  Well, call away.  What have I to account for?  Had you a
hard time with your mother?  Why didnt she ask me for money?
THE MAN.  She'd have died first.  Besides, who wanted your money?  Do
you suppose we lived in the gutter?  My father maynt have been in as
large a way as you; but he was better connected; and his shop was as
respectable as yours.
TARLETON.  I suppose your mother brought him a little capital.
THE MAN.  I dont know.  Whats that got to do with you?
TARLETON.  Well, you say she and I knew one another and parted.  She
must have had something off me then, you know.  One doesnt get out of
these things for nothing.  Hang it, young man:  do you suppose Ive no
heart?  Of course she had her due; and she found a husband with it,
and set him up in business with it, and brought you up respectably; so
what the devil have you to complain of?
THE MAN.  Are women to be ruined with impunity?
TARLETON.  I havnt ruined any woman that I'm aware of.  Ive been the
making of you and your mother.
THE MAN.  Oh, I'm a fool to listen to you and argue with you.  I came
here to kill you and then kill myself.
TARLETON.  Begin with yourself, if you dont mind.  Ive a good deal of
business to do still before I die.  Havnt you?
THE MAN.  No.  Thats just it:  Ive no business to do.  Do you know
what my life is?  I spend my days from nine to six--nine hours of
daylight and fresh air--in a stuffy little den counting another man's
money.  Ive an intellect:  a mind and a brain and a soul; and the use
he makes of them is to fix them on his tuppences and his
eighteenpences and his two pound seventeen and tenpences and see how
much they come to at the end of the day and take care that no one
steals them.  I enter and enter, and add and add, and take money and
give change, and fill cheques and stamp receipts; and not a penny of
that money is my own:  not one of those transactions has the smallest
interest for me or anyone else in the world but him; and even he
couldnt stand it if he had to do it all himself.  And I'm envied:
aye, envied for the variety and liveliness of my job, by the poor
devil of a bookkeeper that has to copy all my entries over again.
Fifty thousand entries a year that poor wretch makes; and not ten out
of the fifty thousand ever has to be referred to again; and when all
the figures are counted up and the balance sheet made out, the boss
isnt a penny the richer than he'd be if bookkeeping had never been
invented.  Of all the damnable waste of human life that ever was
invented, clerking is the very worst.
TARLETON.  Why not join the territorials?
THE MAN.  Because I shouldnt be let.  He hasnt even the sense to see
that it would pay him to get some cheap soldiering out of me.  How can
a man tied to a desk from nine to six be anything--be even a man, let
alone a soldier?  But I'll teach him and you a lesson.  Ive had enough
of living a dog's life and despising myself for it.  Ive had enough of
being talked down to by hogs like you, and wearing my life out for a
salary that wouldut keep you in cigars.  Youll never believe that a
clerk's a man until one of us makes an example of one of you.
TARLETON.  Despotism tempered by assassination, eh?
THE MAN.  Yes.  Thats what they do in Russia.  Well, a business office
is Russia as far as the clerks are concerned.  So dont you take it so
coolly.  You think I'm not going to do it; but I am.
TARLETON.  _[rising and facing him]_  Come, now, as man to man!  It's
not my fault that youre poorer than I am; and it's not your fault that
I'm richer than you.  And if you could undo all that passed between me
and your mother, you wouldnt undo it; and neither would she.  But
youre sick of your slavery; and you want to be the hero of a romance
and to get into the papers.  Eh?  A son revenges his mother's shame.
Villain weltering in his gore.  Mother:  look down from heaven and
receive your unhappy son's last sigh.
THE MAN.  Oh, rot! do you think I read novelettes?  And do you suppose
I believe such superstitions as heaven?  I go to church because the
boss told me I'd get the sack if I didnt.  Free England!  Ha!  _[Lina
appears at the pavilion door, and comes swiftly and noiselessly
forward on seeing the man with a pistol in his hand]._
TARLETON.  Youre afraid of getting the sack; but youre not afraid to
shoot yourself.
THE MAN.  Damn you! youre trying to keep me talking until somebody
comes.  _[He raises the pistol desperately, but not very resolutely]._
LINA.  _[at his right elbow]_  Somebody has come.
THE MAN _[turning on her]_  Stand off.  I'll shoot you if you lay a
hand on me.  I will, by God.
LINA.  You cant cover me with that pistol.  Try.
_He tries, presenting the pistol at her face.  She moves round him in
the opposite direction to the hands of a clock with a light dancing
step.  He finds it impossible to cover her with the pistol:  she is
always too far to his left.  Tarleton, behind him, grips his wrist and
drags his arm straight up, so that the pistol points to the ceiling.
As he tries to turn on his assailant, Lina grips his other wrist._
LINA.  Please stop.  I cant bear to twist anyone's wrist; but I must
if you dont let the pistol go.
THE MAN.  _[letting Tarleton take it from him]_  All right:  I'm done.
Couldnt even do that job decently.  Thats a clerk all over.  Very
well:  send for your damned police and make an end of it.  I'm
accustomed to prison from nine to six:  I daresay I can stand it from
six to nine as well.
TARLETON.  Dont swear.  Thats a lady.  _[He throws the pistol on the
writing table]._
