
MRS TARLETON.  _[naively looking at the wall for the writing]_
Whatever are you talking about, young man?
GUNNER.  I know what I'm talking about.  I went into that Turkish bath
a boy:  I came out a man.
MRS TARLETON.  Good gracious! hes mad.  _[To Lina]_  Did John make him
take a Turkish bath?
LINA.  No.  He doesnt need Turkish baths:  he needs to put on a little
flesh.  I dont understand what it's all about.  I found him trying to
shoot Mr Tarleton.
MRS TARLETON.  _[with a scream]_  Oh! and John encouraging him, I'll
be bound!  Bunny:  you go for the police.  _[To Gunner]_  I'll teach
you to come into my house and shoot my husband.
GUNNER.  Teach away.  I never asked to be let off.  I'm ashamed to be
free instead of taking my part with the rest.  Women--beautiful women
of noble birth--are going to prison for their opinions.  Girl students
in Russia go to the gallows; let themselves be cut in pieces with the
knout, or driven through the frozen snows of Siberia, sooner than
stand looking on tamely at the world being made a hell for the toiling
millions.  If you were not all skunks and cowards youd be suffering
with them instead of battening here on the plunder of the poor.
MRS TARLETON.  _[much vexed]_  Oh, did you ever hear such silly
nonsense?  Bunny:  go and tell the gardener to send over one of his
men to Grayshott for the police.
GUNNER.  I'll go with him.  I intend to give myself up.  I'm going to
expose what Ive seen here, no matter what the consequences may be to
my miserable self.
TARLETON.  Stop.  You stay where you are, Ben.  Chickabiddy:  youve
never had the police in.  If you had, youd not be in a hurry to have
them in again.  Now, young man:  cut the cackle; and tell us, as short
as you can, what did you see?
GUNNER.  I cant tell you in the presence of ladies.
MRS TARLETON.  Oh, you are tiresome.  As if it mattered to anyone what
you saw.  Me!  A married woman that might be your mother.  _[To Lina]_
And I'm sure youre not particular, if youll excuse my saying so.
TARLETON.  Out with it.  What did you see?
GUNNER.  I saw your daughter with my own eyes--oh well, never mind
what I saw.
BENTLEY.  _[almost crying with anxiety]_  You beastly rotter, I'll get
Joey to give you such a hiding--
TARLETON.  You cant leave it at that, you know.  What did you see my
daughter doing?
GUNNER.  After all, why shouldnt she do it?  The Russian students do
it.  Women should be as free as men.  I'm a fool.  I'm so full of your
bourgeois morality that I let myself be shocked by the application of
my own revolutionary principles.  If she likes the man why shouldnt
she tell him so?
MRS TARLETON.  I do wonder at you, John, letting him talk like this
before everybody.  _[Turning rather tartly to Lina]_  Would you mind
going away to the drawing-room just for a few minutes, Miss
Chipenoska.  This is a private family matter, if you dont mind.
LINA.  I should have gone before, Mrs Tarleton, if there had been
anyone to protect Mr Tarleton and the young gentleman.
TARLETON.  Youre quite right, Miss Lina:  you must stand by.  I could
have tackled him this morning; but since you put me through those
exercises I'd rather die than even shake hands with a man, much less
fight him.
GUNNER.  It's all of a piece here.  The men effeminate, the women
unsexed--
TARLETON.  Dont begin again, old chap.  Keep it for Trafalgar Square.
HYPATIA'S VOICE OUTSIDE.  No, no.  _[She breaks off in a stifled half
laugh, half scream, and is seen darting across the garden with
Percival in hot pursuit.  Immediately afterwards she appears again,
and runs into the pavilion.  Finding it full of people, including a
stranger, she stops; but Percival, flushed and reckless, rushes in and
seizes her before he, too, realizes that they are not alone.  He
releases her in confusion]._
_Dead silence.  They are all afraid to look at one another except Mrs
Tarleton, who stares sternly at Hypatia.  Hypatia is the first to
recover her presence of mind._
HYPATIA.  Excuse me rushing in like this.  Mr Percival has been
chasing me down the hill.
GUNNER.  Who chased him up it?  Dont be ashamed.  Be fearless.  Be
truthful.
