
JOHNNY.  _[rising eagerly, highly flattered]_  Right you are.  Thatll
suit me down to the ground.  _[He takes a Panama and stick from the
hat stand]._
_Mrs Tarleton and Hypatia come back just as the two men are going out.
Hypatia salutes Summerhays from a distance with an enigmatic lift of
her eyelids in his direction and a demure nod before she sits down at
the worktable and busies herself with her needle.  Mrs Tarleton,
hospitably fussy, goes over to him._
MRS TARLETON.  Oh, Lord Summerhays, I didnt know you were here.  Wont
you have some tea?
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  No, thank you:  I'm not allowed tea.  And I'm
ashamed to say Ive knocked over your beautiful punch-bowl.  You must
let me replace it.
MRS TARLETON.  Oh, it doesnt matter:  I'm only too glad to be rid of
it.  The shopman told me it was in the best taste; but when my poor
old nurse Martha got cataract, Bunny said it was a merciful provision
of Nature to prevent her seeing our china.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  _[gravely]_  That was exceedingly rude of Bentley,
Mrs Tarleton.  I hope you told him so.
MRS TARLETON.  Oh, bless you!  I dont care what he says; so long as he
says it to me and not before visitors.
JOHNNY.  We're going out for a stroll, mother.
MRS TARLETON.  All right:  dont let us keep you.  Never mind about
that crock:  I'll get the girl to come and take the pieces away.
_[Recollecting herself]_  There!  Ive done it again!
JOHNNY.  Done what?
MRS TARLETON.  Called her the girl.  You know, Lord Summerhays, its a
funny thing; but now I'm getting old, I'm dropping back into all the
ways John and I had when we had barely a hundred a year.  You should
have known me when I was forty!  I talked like a duchess; and if
Johnny or Hypatia let slip a word that was like old times, I was down
on them like anything.  And now I'm beginning to do it myself at every
turn.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  There comes a time when all that seems to matter so
little.  Even queens drop the mask when they reach our time of life.
MRS TARLETON.  Let you alone for giving a thing a pretty turn!  Youre
a humbug, you know, Lord Summerhays.  John doesnt know it; and Johnny
doesnt know it; but you and I know it, dont we?  Now thats something
that even you cant answer; so be off with you for your walk without
another word.
_Lord Summerhays smiles; bows; and goes out through the vestibule
door, followed by Johnny.  Mrs Tarleton sits down at the worktable and
takes out her darning materials and one of her husband's socks.
Hypatia is at the other side of the table, on her mother's right.
They chat as they work.
HYPATIA.  I wonder whether they laugh at us when they are by
themselves!
MRS TARLETON.  Who?
HYPATIA.  Bentley and his father and all the toffs in their set.
MRS TARLETON.  Oh, thats only their way.  I used to think that the
aristocracy were a nasty sneering lot, and that they were laughing at
me and John.  Theyre always giggling and pretending not to care much
about anything.  But you get used to it:  theyre the same to one
another and to everybody.  Besides, what does it matter what they
think?  It's far worse when theyre civil, because that always means
that they want you to lend them money; and you must never do that,
Hypatia, because they never pay.  How can they?  They dont make
anything, you see.  Of course, if you can make up your mind to regard
it as a gift, thats different; but then they generally ask you again;
and you may as well say no first as last.  You neednt be afraid of the
aristocracy, dear:  theyre only human creatures like ourselves after
all; and youll hold your own with them easy enough.
HYPATIA.  Oh, I'm not a bit afraid of them, I assure you.
MRS TARLETON.  Well, no, not afraid of them, exactly; but youve got to
pick up their ways.  You know, dear, I never quite agreed with your
father's notion of keeping clear of them, and sending you to a school
that was so expensive that they couldnt afford to send their daughters
there; so that all the girls belonged to big business families like
ourselves.  It takes all sorts to make a world; and I wanted you to
see a little of all sorts.  When you marry Bunny, and go among the
women of his father's set, theyll shock you at first.
HYPATIA.  _[incredulously]_  How?
MRS TARLETON.  Well, the things they talk about.
HYPATIA.  Oh! scandalmongering?
MRS TARLETON.  Oh no:  we all do that:  thats only human nature.  But
you know theyve no notion of decency.  I shall never forget the first
day I spent with a marchioness, two duchesses, and no end of Ladies
This and That.  Of course it was only a committee:  theyd put me on to
get a big subscription out of John.  I'd never heard such talk in my
life.  The things they mentioned!  And it was the marchioness that
started it.
HYPATIA.  What sort of things?
