
_She kneels opposite Bentley; quickly lifts the upper half of him from
the ground; dives under him; rises with his body hanging across her
shoulders; and runs out with him._
BENTLEY.  _[in scared, sobered, humble tones as he is borne off]_
What are you doing?  Let me down.  Please, Miss Szczepanowska--
_[they pass out of hearing]._
_An awestruck silence falls on the company as they speculate on
Bentley's fate._
JOHNNY.  I wonder what shes going to do with him.
HYPATIA.  Spank him, I hope.  Spank him hard.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  I hope so.  I hope so.  Tarleton:  I'm beyond
measure humiliated and annoyed by my son's behavior in your house.  I
had better take him home.
TARLETON.  Not at all:  not at all.  Now, Chickabiddy:  as Miss Lina
has taken away Ben, suppose you take away Mr Brown for a while.
GUNNER.  _[with unexpected aggressiveness]_  My name isnt Brown.
_[They stare at him:  he meets their stare defiantly, pugnacious with
sloe gin; drains the last drop from his glass; throws it on the
sideboard; and advances to the writing table]._   My name's Baker:
Julius Baker.  Mister Baker.  If any man doubts it, I'm ready for him.
MRS TARLETON.  John:  you shouldnt have given him that sloe gin.  It's
gone to his head.
GUNNER.  Dont you think it.  Fruit beverages dont go to the head; and
what matter if they did?  I say nothing to you, maam:  I regard you
with respect and affection.  _[Lachrymosely]_  You were very good to
my mother:  my poor mother!  _[Relapsing into his daring mood]_  But I
say my name's Baker; and I'm not to be treated as a child or made a
slave of by any man.  Baker is my name.  Did you think I was going to
give you my real name?  Not likely.  Not me.
TARLETON.  So you thought of John Brown.  That was clever of you.
GUNNER.  Clever!  Yes:  we're not all such fools as you think:  we
clerks.  It was the bookkeeper put me up to that.  It's the only name
that nobody gives as a false name, he said.  Clever, eh?  I should
think so.
MRS TARLETON.  Come now, Julius--
GUNNER.  _[reassuring her gravely]_  Dont you be alarmed, maam.  I
know what is due to you as a lady and to myself as a gentleman.  I
regard you with respect and affection.  If you had been my mother, as
you ought to have been, I should have had more chance.  But you shall
have no cause to be ashamed of me.  The strength of a chain is no
greater than its weakest link; but the greatness of a poet is the
greatness of his greatest moment.  Shakespear used to get drunk.
Frederick the Great ran away from a battle.  But it was what they
could rise to, not what they could sink to, that made them great.
They werent good always; but they were good on their day.  Well, on my
day--on my day, mind you--I'm good for something too.  I know that Ive
made a silly exhibition of myself here.  I know I didnt rise to the
occasion.  I know that if youd been my mother, youd have been ashamed
of me.  I lost my presence of mind:  I was a contemptible coward.  But
_[slapping himself on the chest]_  I'm not the man I was then.  This
is my day.  Ive seen the tenth possessor of a foolish face carried out
kicking and screaming by a woman.  _[To Percival]_  You crowed pretty
big over me.  You hypnotized me.  But when you were put through the
fire yourself, you were found wanting.  I tell you straight I dont
give a damn for you.
MRS TARLETON.  No:  thats naughty.  You shouldnt say that before me.
GUNNER.  I would cut my tongue out sooner than say anything vulgar in
your presence; for I regard you with respect and affection.  I was not
swearing.  I was affirming my manhood.
MRS TARLETON.  What an idea!  What puts all these things into your
head?
GUNNER.  Oh, dont you think, because I'm a clerk, that I'm not one of
the intellectuals.  I'm a reading man, a thinking man.  I read in a
book--a high class six shilling book--this precept:  Affirm your
manhood.  It appealed to me.  Ive always remembered it.  I believe in
it.  I feel I must do it to recover your respect after my cowardly
behavior.  Therefore I affirm it in your presence.  I tell that man
who insulted me that I dont give a damn for him.  And neither I do.
TARLETON.  I say, Summerhays:  did you have chaps of this sort in
Jinghiskahn?
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Oh yes:  they exist everywhere:  they are a most
serious modern problem.
GUNNER.  Yes.  Youre right.  _[Conceitedly]_  I'm a problem.  And I
tell you that when we clerks realize that we're problems! well, look
out:  thats all.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  _[suavely, to Gunner]_  You read a great deal, you
say?
GUNNER.  Ive read more than any man in this room, if the truth were
known, I expect.  Thats whats going to smash up your Capitalism.  The
problems are beginning to read.  Ha!  We're free to do that here in
England.  What would you do with me in Jinghiskahn if you had me
there?
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Well, since you ask me so directly, I'll tell you.
I should take advantage of the fact that you have neither sense enough
nor strength enough to know how to behave yourself in a difficulty of
any sort.  I should warn an intelligent and ambitious policeman that
you are a troublesome person.  The intelligent and ambitious policeman
would take an early opportunity of upsetting your temper by ordering
you to move on, and treading on your heels until you were provoked
into obstructing an officer in the discharge of his duty.  Any trifle
of that sort would be sufficient to make a man like you lose your
self-possession and put yourself in the wrong.  You would then be
charged and imprisoned until things quieted down.
GUNNER.  And you call that justice!
