
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  No.  Justice was not my business.  I had to govern a
province; and I took the necessary steps to maintain order in it.  Men
are not governed by justice, but by law or persuasion.  When they
refuse to be governed by law or persuasion, they have to be governed
by force or fraud, or both.  I used both when law and persuasion
failed me.  Every ruler of men since the world began has done so, even
when he has hated both fraud and force as heartily as I do.  It is as
well that you should know this, my young friend; so that you may
recognize in time that anarchism is a game at which the police can
beat you.  What have you to say to that?
GUNNER.  What have I to say to it!  Well, I call it scandalous:  thats
what I have to say to it.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Precisely:  thats all anybody has to say to it,
except the British public, which pretends not to believe it.  And now
let me ask you a sympathetic personal question.  Havnt you a headache?
GUNNER.  Well, since you ask me, I have.  Ive overexcited myself.
MRS TARLETON.  Poor lad!  No wonder, after all youve gone through!
You want to eat a little and to lie down.  You come with me.  I want
you to tell me about your poor dear mother and about yourself.  Come
along with me.  _[She leads the way to the inner door]._
GUNNER.  _[following her obediently]_  Thank you kindly, madam.  _[She
goes out.  Before passing out after her, he partly closes the door and
stops an the landing for a moment to say]_  Mind:  I'm not knuckling
down to any man here.  I knuckle down to Mrs Tarleton because shes a
woman in a thousand.  I affirm my manhood all the same.  Understand:
I dont give a damn for the lot of you.  _[He hurries out, rather
afraid of the consequences of this defiance, which has provoked Johnny
to an impatient movement towards him]._
HYPATIA.  Thank goodness hes gone!  Oh, what a bore!  WHAT a bore!!!
Talk, talk, talk!
TARLETON.  Patsy:  it's no good.  We're going to talk.  And we're
going to talk about you.
JOHNNY.  It's no use shirking it, Pat.  We'd better know where we are.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Come, Miss Tarleton.  Wont you sit down?  I'm very
tired of standing.  _[Hypatia comes from the pavilion and takes a
chair at the worktable.  Lord Summerhays takes the opposite chair, an
her right.  Percival takes the chair Johnny placed for Lina on her
arrival.  Tarleton sits down at the end of the writing table.  Johnny
remains standing.  Lord Summerhays continues, with a sigh of relief at
being seated.]_  We shall now get the change of subject we are all
pining for.
JOHNNY.  _[puzzled]_  Whats that?
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  The great question.  The question that men and women
will spend hours over without complaining.  The question that occupies
all the novel readers and all the playgoers.  The question they never
get tired of.
JOHNNY.  But what question?
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  The question which particular young man some young
woman will mate with.
PERCIVAL.  As if it mattered!
HYPATIA.  _[sharply]_  Whats that you said?
PERCIVAL.  I said:  As if it mattered.
HYPATIA.  I call that ungentlemanly.
PERCIVAL.  Do you care about that? you who are so magnificently
unladylike!
JOHNNY.  Look here, Mr Percival:  youre not supposed to insult my
sister.
HYPATIA.  Oh, shut up, Johnny.  I can take care of myself.  Dont you
interfere.
JOHNNY.  Oh, very well.  If you choose to give yourself away like
that--to allow a man to call you unladylike and then to be unladylike,
Ive nothing more to say.
HYPATIA.  I think Mr Percival is most ungentlemanly; but I wont be
protected.  I'll not have my affairs interfered with by men on
pretence of protecting me.  I'm not your baby.  If I interfered
between you and a woman, you would soon tell me to mind my own
business.
TARLETON.  Children:  dont squabble.  Read Dr Watts.  Behave
yourselves.
JOHNNY.  Ive nothing more to say; and as I dont seem to be wanted
here, I shall take myself off.  _[He goes out with affected calm
through the pavilion]._
