
TARLETON.  Summerhays:  a family is an awful thing, an impossible
thing.  Cat and dog.  Patsy:  I'm ashamed of vou.
HYPATIA.  I'll make it up with Johnny afterwards; but I really cant
have him here sticking his clumsy hoof into my affairs.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  The question is, Mr Percival, are you really a
gentleman, or are you not?
PERCIVAL.  Was Napoleon really a gentleman or was he not?  He made the
lady get out of the way of the porter and said, "Respect the burden,
madam."  That was behaving like a very fine gentleman; but he kicked
Volney for saying that what France wanted was the Bourbons back again.
That was behaving rather like a navvy.  Now I, like Napoleon, am not
all one piece.  On occasion, as you have all seen, I can behave like a
gentleman.  On occasion, I can behave with a brutal simplicity which
Miss Tarleton herself could hardly surpass.
TARLETON.  Gentleman or no gentleman, Patsy:  what are your
intentions?
HYPATIA.  My intentions!  Surely it's the gentleman who should be
asked his intentions.
TARLETON.  Come now, Patsy! none of that nonsense.  Has Mr Percival
said anything to you that I ought to know or that Bentley ought to
know?  Have you said anything to Mr Percival?
HYPATIA.  Mr Percival chased me through the heather and kissed me.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  As a gentleman, Mr Percival, what do you say to
that?
PERCIVAL.  As a gentleman, I do not kiss and tell.  As a mere man:  a
mere cad, if you like, I say that I did so at Miss Tarleton's own
suggestion.
HYPATIA.  Beast!
PERCIVAL.  I dont deny that I enjoyed it.  But I did not initiate it.
And I began by running away.
TARLETON.  So Patsy can run faster than you, can she?
PERCIVAL.  Yes, when she is in pursuit of me.  She runs faster and
faster.  I run slower and slower.  And these woods of yours are full
of magic.  There was a confounded fern owl.  Did you ever hear the
churr of a fern owl?  Did you ever hear it create a sudden silence by
ceasing?  Did you ever hear it call its mate by striking its wings
together twice and whistling that single note that no nightingale can
imitate?  That is what happened in the woods when I was running away.
So I turned; and the pursuer became the pursued.
HYPATIA.  I had to fight like a wild cat.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Please dont tell us this.  It's not fit for old
people to hear.
TARLETON.  Come:  how did it end?
HYPATIA.  It's not ended yet.
TARLETON.  How is it going to end?
HYPATIA.  Ask him.
TARLETON.  How is it going to end, Mr Percival?
PERCIVAL.  I cant afford to marry, Mr Tarleton.  Ive only a thousand a
year until my father dies.  Two people cant possibly live on that.
TARLETON.  Oh, cant they?  When _I_ married, I should have been jolly
glad to have felt sure of the quarter of it.
PERCIVAL.  No doubt; but I am not a cheap person, Mr Tarleton.  I was
brought up in a household which cost at least seven or eight times
that; and I am in constant money difficulties because I simply dont
know how to live on the thousand a year scale.  As to ask a woman to
share my degrading poverty, it's out of the question.  Besides, I'm
rather young to marry.  I'm only 28.
HYPATIA.  Papa:  buy the brute for me.
