
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  _[shrinking]_  My dear Miss Tarleton:  dont be so
naughty.  I know how delightful it is to shock an old man; but there
is a point at which it becomes barbarous.  Dont.  Please dont.
HYPATIA.  Shall I tell Papa about you?
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Tarleton:  I had better tell you that I once asked
your daughter to become my widow.
TARLETON.  _[to Hypatia]_  Why didnt you accept him, you young idiot?
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  I was too old.
TARLETON.  All this has been going on under my nose, I suppose.  You
run after young men; and old men run after you.  And I'm the last
person in the world to hear of it.
HYPATIA.  How could I tell you?
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Parents and children, Tarleton.
TARLETON.  Oh, the gulf that lies between them! the impassable,
eternal gulf!  And so I'm to buy the brute for you, eh?
HYPATIA.  If you please, papa.
TARLETON.  Whats the price, Mr Percival?
PERCIVAL.  We might do with another fifteen hundred if my father would
contribute.  But I should like more.
TARLETON.  It's purely a question of money with you, is it?
PERCIVAL.  _[after a moment's consideration]_  Practically yes:  it
turns on that.
TARLETON.  I thought you might have some sort of preference for Patsy,
you know.
PERCIVAL.  Well, but does that matter, do you think?  Patsy fascinates
me, no doubt.  I apparently fascinate Patsy.  But, believe me, all
that is not worth considering.  One of my three fathers (the priest)
has married hundreds of couples:  couples selected by one another,
couples selected by the parents, couples forced to marry one another
by circumstances of one kind or another; and he assures me that if
marriages were made by putting all the men's names into one sack and
the women's names into another, and having them taken out by a
blindfolded child like lottery numbers, there would be just as high a
percentage of happy marriages as we have here in England.  He said
Cupid was nothing but the blindfolded child:  pretty idea that, I
think!  I shall have as good a chance with Patsy as with anyone else.
Mind:  I'm not bigoted about it.  I'm not a doctrinaire:  not the
slave of a theory.  You and Lord Summerhays are experienced married
men.  If you can tell me of any trustworthy method of selecting a
wife, I shall be happy to make use of it.  I await your suggestions.
_[He looks with polite attention to Lord Summerhays, who, having
nothing to say, avoids his eye.  He looks to Tarleton, who purses his
lips glumly and rattles his money in his pockets without a word]._
Apparently neither of you has anything to suggest.  Then Patsy will do
as well as another, provided the money is forthcoming.
HYPATIA.  Oh, you beauty, you beauty!
TARLETON.  When I married Patsy's mother, I was in love with her.
PERCIVAL.  For the first time?
TARLETON.  Yes:  for the first time.
PERCIVAL.  For the last time?
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  _[revolted]_  Sir:  you are in the presence of his
daughter.
HYPATIA.  Oh, dont mind me.  I dont care.  I'm accustomed to Papa's
adventures.
TARLETON.  _[blushing painfully]_  Patsy, my child:  that was not--not
delicate.
HYPATIA.  Well, papa, youve never shewn any delicacy in talking to me
about my conduct; and I really dont see why I shouldnt talk to you
about yours.  It's such nonsense!  Do you think young people dont
know?
