
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  I'm sure they dont feel.  Tarleton:  this is too
horrible, too brutal.  If neither of these young people have
any--any--any--
PERCIVAL.  Shall we say paternal sentimentality?  I'm extremely sorry
to shock you; but you must remember that Ive been educated to discuss
human affairs with three fathers simultaneously.  I'm an adult person.
Patsy is an adult person.  You do not inspire me with veneration.
Apparently you do not inspire Patsy with veneration.  That may
surprise you.  It may pain you.  I'm sorry.  It cant be helped.  What
about the money?
TARLETON.  You dont inspire me with generosity, young man.
HYPATIA.  _[laughing with genuine amusement]_  He had you there, Joey.
TARLETON.  I havnt been a bad father to you, Patsy.
HYPATIA.  I dont say you have, dear.  If only I could persuade you Ive
grown up, we should get along perfectly.
TARLETON.  Do you remember Bill Burt?
HYPATIA.  Why?
TARLETON.  _[to the others]_  Bill Burt was a laborer here.  I was
going to sack him for kicking his father.  He said his father had
kicked him until he was big enough to kick back.  Patsy begged him
off.  I asked that man what it felt like the first time he kicked his
father, and found that it was just like kicking any other man.  He
laughed and said that it was the old man that knew what it felt like.
Think of that, Summerhays! think of that!
HYPATIA.  I havnt kicked you, papa.
TARLETON.  Youve kicked me harder than Bill Burt ever kicked.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  It's no use, Tarleton.  Spare yourself.  Do you
seriously expect these young people, at their age, to sympathize with
what this gentleman calls your paternal sentimentality?
TARLETON.  _[wistfully]_  Is it nothing to you but paternal
sentimentality, Patsy?
HYPATIA.  Well, I greatly prefer your superabundant vitality, papa.
TARLETON.  _[violently]_  Hold your tongue, you young devil.  The
young are all alike:  hard, coarse, shallow, cruel, selfish,
dirty-minded.  You can clear out of my house as soon as you can coax
him to take you; and the sooner the better.  _[To Percival]_  I think
you said your price was fifteen hundred a year.  Take it.  And I wish
you joy of your bargain.
PERCIVAL.  If you wish to know who I am--
TARLETON.  I dont care a tinker's curse who you are or what you are.
Youre willing to take that girl off my hands for fifteen hundred a
year:  thats all that concerns me.  Tell her who you are if you like:
it's her affair, not mine.
HYPATIA.  Dont answer him, Joey:  it wont last.  Lord Summerhays, I'm
sorry about Bentley; but Joey's the only man for me.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  It may--
HYPATIA.  Please dont say it may break your poor boy's heart.  It's
much more likely to break yours.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Oh!
TARLETON.  _[springing to his feet]_  Leave the room.  Do you hear:
leave the room.
PERCIVAL.  Arnt we getting a little cross?  Dont be angry, Mr
Tarleton.  Read Marcus Aurelius.
TARLETON.  Dont you dare make fun of me.  Take your aeroplane out of
my vinery and yourself out of my house.
PERCIVAL.  _[rising, to Hypatia]_  I'm afraid I shall have to dine at
the Beacon, Patsy.
