
MRS TARLETON.  Drainage!!  She'd tried three systems in her castle;
and she was going to do away with them all and try another.  I didnt
know which way to look when she began talking about it:  I thought
theyd all have got up and gone out of the room.  But not a bit of it,
if you please.  They were all just as bad as she.  They all had
systems; and each of them swore by her own system.  I sat there with
my cheeks burning until one of the duchesses, thinking I looked out of
it, I suppose, asked me what system I had.  I said I was sure I knew
nothing about such things, and hadnt we better change the subject.
Then the fat was in the fire, I can tell you.  There was a regular
terror of a countess with an anaerobic system; and she told me,
downright brutally, that I'd better learn something about them before
my children died of diphtheria.  That was just two months after I'd
buried poor little Bobby; and that was the very thing he died of, poor
little lamb!  I burst out crying:  I couldnt help it.  It was as good
as telling me I'd killed my own child.  I had to go away; but before I
was out of the door one of the duchesses--quite a young woman--began
talking about what sour milk did in her inside and how she expected to
live to be over a hundred if she took it regularly.  And me listening
to her, that had never dared to think that a duchess could have
anything so common as an inside!  I shouldnt have minded if it had
been children's insides:  we have to talk about them.  But grown-up
people!  I was glad to get away that time.
HYPATIA.  There was a physiology and hygiene class started at school;
but of course none of our girls were let attend it.
MRS TARLETON.  If it had been an aristocratic school plenty would have
attended it.  Thats what theyre like:  theyve nasty minds.  With
really nice good women a thing is either decent or indecent; and if
it's indecent, we just dont mention it or pretend to know about it;
and theres an end of it.  But all the aristocracy cares about is
whether it can get any good out of the thing.  Theyre what Johnny
calls cynical-like.  And of course nobody can say a word to them for
it.  Theyre so high up that they can do and say what they like.
HYPATIA.  Well, I think they might leave the drains to their husbands.
I shouldnt think much of a man that left such things to me.
MRS TARLETON.  Oh, dont think that, dear, whatever you do.  I never
let on about it to you; but it's me that takes care of the drainage
here.  After what that countess said to me I wasnt going to lose
another child or trust John.  And I don't want my grandchildren to die
any more than my children.
HYPATIA.  Do you think Bentley will ever be as big a man as his
father?  I dont mean clever:  I mean big and strong.
MRS TARLETON.  Not he.  Hes overbred, like one of those expensive
little dogs.  I like a bit of a mongrel myself, whether it's a man or
a dog:  theyre the best for everyday.  But we all have our tastes:
whats one woman's meat is another woman's poison.  Bunny's a dear
little fellow; but I never could have fancied him for a husband when I
was your age.
HYPATIA.  Yes; but he has some brains.  Hes not like all the rest.
One can't have everything.
MRS TARLETON.  Oh, youre quite right, dear:  quite right.  It's a
great thing to have brains:  look what it's done for your father!
Thats the reason I never said a word when you jilted poor Jerry
Mackintosh.
HYPATIA.  _[excusing herself]_  I really couldnt stick it out with
Jerry, mother.  I know you liked him; and nobody can deny that hes a
splendid animal--
MRS TARLETON.  _[shocked]_  Hypatia!  How can you!  The things that
girls say nowadays!
HYPATIA.  Well, what else can you call him?  If I'd been deaf or he'd
been dumb, I could have married him.  But living with father, Ive got
accustomed to cleverness.  Jerry would drive me mad:  you know very
well hes a fool:  even Johnny thinks him a fool.
MRS TARLETON.  _[up in arms at once in defence of her boy]_  Now dont
begin about my Johnny.  You know it annoys me.  Johnny's as clever as
anybody else in his own way.  I dont say hes as clever as you in some
ways; but hes a man, at all events, and not a little squit of a thing
like your Bunny.
HYPATIA.  Oh, I say nothing against your darling:  we all know
Johnny's perfection.
MRS TARLETON.  Dont be cross, dearie.  You let Johnny alone; and I'll
let Bunny alone.  I'm just as bad as you.  There!
HYPATIA.  Oh, I dont mind your saying that about Bentley.  It's true.
He is a little squit of a thing.  I wish he wasnt.  But who else is
there?  Think of all the other chances Ive had!  Not one of them has
as much brains in his whole body as Bentley has in his little finger.
Besides, theyve no distinction.  It's as much as I can do to tell one
from the other.  They wouldnt even have money if they werent the sons
of their fathers, like Johnny.  Whats a girl to do?  I never met
anybody like Bentley before.  He may be small; but hes the best of the
bunch:  you cant deny that.
MRS TARLETON.  _[with a sigh]_  Well, my pet, if you fancy him, theres
no more to be said.
_A pause follows this remark:  the two women sewing silently._
HYPATIA.  Mother:  do you think marriage is as much a question of
fancy as it used to be in your time and father's?
MRS TARLETON.  Oh, it wasnt much fancy with me, dear:  your father
just wouldnt take no for an answer; and I was only too glad to be his
wife instead of his shop-girl.  Still, it's curious; but I had more
choice than you in a way, because, you see, I was poor; and there are
so many more poor men than rich ones that I might have had more of a
pick, as you might say, if John hadnt suited me.
HYPATIA.  I can imagine all sorts of men I could fall in love with;
but I never seem to meet them.  The real ones are too small, like
Bunny, or too silly, like Jerry.  Of course one can get into a state
about any man:  fall in love with him if you like to call it that.
But who would risk marrying a man for love?  _I_ shouldnt.  I remember
three girls at school who agreed that the one man you should never
marry was the man you were in love with, because it would make a
perfect slave of you.  Theres a sort of instinct against it, I think,
thats just as strong as the other instinct.  One of them, to my
certain knowledge, refused a man she was in love with, and married
another who was in love with her; and it turned out very well.
MRS TARLETON.  Does all that mean that youre not in love with Bunny?
HYPATIA.  Oh, how could anybody be in love with Bunny?  I like him to
kiss me just as I like a baby to kiss me.  I'm fond of him; and he
never bores me; and I see that hes very clever; but I'm not what you
call gone about him, if thats what you mean.
MRS TARLETON.  Then why need you marry him?
HYPATIA.  What better can I do?  I must marry somebody, I suppose.
Ive realized that since I was twenty-three.  I always used to take it
as a matter of course that I should be married before I was twenty.
