
BENTLEY.  I'm not.  I never heard such conversation:  I cant believe
my ears.  And mind you, this is the man who objected to my marrying
his daughter on the ground that a marriage between a member of the
great and good middle class with one of the vicious and corrupt
aristocracy would be a misalliance.  A misalliance, if you please!
This is the man Ive adopted as a father!
TARLETON.  Eh!  Whats that?  Adopted me as a father, have you?
BENTLEY.  Yes.  Thats an idea of mine.  I knew a chap named Joey
Percival at Oxford (you know I was two months at Balliol before I was
sent down for telling the old woman who was head of that silly college
what I jolly well thought of him.  He would have been glad to have me
back, too, at the end of six months; but I wouldnt go:  I just let him
want; and serve him right!)  Well, Joey was a most awfully clever
fellow, and so nice!  I asked him what made such a difference between
him and all the other pups--they were pups, if you like.  He told me
it was very simple:  they had only one father apiece; and he had
three.
MRS TARLETON.  Dont talk nonsense, child.  How could that be?
BENTLEY.  Oh, very simple.  His father--
TARLETON.  Which father?
BENTLEY.  The first one:  the regulation natural chap.  He kept a tame
philosopher in the house:  a sort of Coleridge or Herbert Spencer kind
of card, you know.  That was the second father.  Then his mother was
an Italian princess; and she had an Italian priest always about.  He
was supposed to take charge of her conscience; but from what I could
make out, she jolly well took charge of his.  The whole three of them
took charge of Joey's conscience.  He used to hear them arguing like
mad about everything.  You see, the philosopher was a freethinker, and
always believed the latest thing.  The priest didnt believe anything,
because it was sure to get him into trouble with someone or another.
And the natural father kept an open mind and believed whatever paid
him best.  Between the lot of them Joey got cultivated no end.  He
said if he could only have had three mothers as well, he'd have backed
himself against Napoleon.
TARLETON.  _[impressed]_  Thats an idea.  Thats a most interesting
idea:  a most important idea.
MRS TARLETON.  You always were one for ideas, John.
TARLETON.  Youre right, Chickabiddy.  What do I tell Johnny when he
brags about Tarleton's Underwear?  It's not the underwear.  The
underwear be hanged!  Anybody can make underwear.  Anybody can sell
underwear.  Tarleton's Ideas:  thats whats done it.  Ive often thought
of putting that up over the shop.
BENTLEY.  Take me into partnership when you do, old man.  I'm wasted
on the underwear; but I shall come in strong on the ideas.
TARLETON.  You be a good boy; and perhaps I will.
MRS TARLETON.  _[scenting a plot against her beloved Johnny]_  Now,
John:  you promised--
TARLETON.  Yes, yes.  All right, Chickabiddy:  dont fuss.  Your
precious Johnny shant be interfered with.  _[Bouncing up, too
energetic to sit still]_  But I'm getting sick of that old shop.
Thirty-five years Ive had of it:  same blessed old stairs to go up and
down every day:  same old lot:  same old game:  sorry I ever started
it now.  I'll chuck it and try something else:  something that will
give a scope to all my faculties.
HYPATIA.  Theres money in underwear:  theres none in wild-cat ideas.
TARLETON.  Theres money in me, madam, no matter what I go into.
MRS TARLETON.  Dont boast, John.  Dont tempt Providence.
TARLETON.  Rats!  You dont understand Providence.  Providence likes to
be tempted.  Thats the secret of the successful man.  Read Browning.
Natural theology on an island, eh?  Caliban was afraid to tempt
Providence:  that was why he was never able to get even with Prospero.
What did Prospero do?  Prospero didnt even tempt Providence:  he was
Providence.  Thats one of Tarleton's ideas; and dont you forget it.
BENTLEY.  You are full of beef today, old man.
TARLETON.  Beef be blowed!  Joy of life.  Read Ibsen.  _[He goes into
the pavilion to relieve his restlessness, and stares out with his
hands thrust deep in his pockets]._
HYPATIA.  _[thoughtful]_  Bentley:  couldnt you invite your friend Mr
Percival down here?
BENTLEY.  Not if I know it.  Youd throw me over the moment you set
eyes on him.
MRS TARLETON.  Oh, Bunny!  For shame!
BENTLEY.  Well, who'd marry me, dyou suppose, if they could get my
brains with a full-sized body?  No, thank you.  I shall take jolly
good care to keep Joey out of this until Hypatia is past praying for.
_Johnny and Lord Summerhays return through the pavilion from their
stroll._
