
TARLETON.  Welcome! welcome!  Why have you stayed away so long?
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  _[shaking hands]_  Yes:  I should have come sooner.
But I'm still rather lost in England.  _[Johnny takes his hat and
hangs it up beside his own]._  Thank you.  _[Johnny returns to his
swing and his novel.  Lord Summerhays comes to the writing table]._
The fact is that as Ive nothing to do, I never have time to go
anywhere.  _[He sits down next Mrs Tarleton]._
TARLETON.  _[following him and sitting down on his left]_  Paradox,
paradox.  Good.  Paradoxes are the only truths.  Read Chesterton.  But
theres lots for you to do here.  You have a genius for government.
You learnt your job out there in Jinghiskahn.  Well, we want to be
governed here in England.  Govern us.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Ah yes, my friend; but in Jinghiskahn you have to
govern the right way.  If you dont, you go under and come home.  Here
everything has to be done the wrong way, to suit governors who
understand nothing but partridge shooting (our English native princes,
in fact) and voters who dont know what theyre voting about.  I dont
understand these democratic games; and I'm afraid I'm too old to
learn.  What can I do but sit in the window of my club, which consists
mostly of retired Indian Civil servants?  We look on at the muddle and
the folly and amateurishness; and we ask each other where a single
fortnight of it would have landed us.
TARLETON.  Very true.  Still, Democracy's all right, you know.  Read
Mill.  Read Jefferson.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Yes.  Democracy reads well; but it doesnt act well,
like some people's plays.  No, no, my friend Tarleton:  to make
Democracy work, you need an aristocratic democracy.  To make
Aristocracy work, you need a democratic aristocracy.  Youve got
neither; and theres an end of it.
TARLETON.  Still, you know, the superman may come.  The superman's an
idea.  I believe in ideas.  Read Whatshisname.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Reading is a dangerous amusement, Tarleton.  I wish
I could persuade your free library people of that.
TARLETON.  Why, man, it's the beginning of education.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  On the contrary, it's the end of it.  How can you
dare teach a man to read until youve taught him everything else first?
JOHNNY.  _[intercepting his father's reply by coming out of the swing
and taking the floor]_  Leave it at that.  Thats good sense.  Anybody
on for a game of tennis?
BENTLEY.  Oh, lets have some more improving conversation.  Wouldnt you
rather, Johnny?
JOHNNY.  If you ask me, no.
TARLETON.  Johnny:  you dont cultivate your mind.  You dont read.
JOHNNY.  _[coming between his mother and Lord Summerhays, book in
hand]_  Yes I do.  I bet you what you like that, page for page, I read
more than you, though I dont talk about it so much.  Only, I dont read
the same books.  I like a book with a plot in it.  You like a book
with nothing in it but some idea that the chap that writes it keeps
worrying, like a cat chasing its own tail.  I can stand a little of
it, just as I can stand watching the cat for two minutes, say, when
Ive nothing better to do.  But a man soon gets fed up with that sort
of thing.  The fact is, you look on an author as a sort of god.  _I_
look on him as a man that I pay to do a certain thing for me.  I pay
him to amuse me and to take me out of myself and make me forget.
TARLETON.  No.  Wrong principle.  You want to remember.  Read Kipling.
"Lest we forget."
JOHNNY.  If Kipling wants to remember, let him remember.  If he had to
run Tarleton's Underwear, he'd be jolly glad to forget.  As he has a
much softer job, and wants to keep himself before the public, his cry
is, "Dont you forget the sort of things I'm rather clever at writing
about."  Well, I dont blame him:  it's his business:  I should do the
same in his place.  But what he wants and what I want are two
different things.  I want to forget; and I pay another man to make me
forget.  If I buy a book or go to the theatre, I want to forget the
shop and forget myself from the moment I go in to the moment I come
out.  Thats what I pay my money for.  And if I find that the author's
simply getting at me the whole time, I consider that hes obtained my
money under false pretences.  I'm not a morbid crank:  I'm a natural
man; and, as such, I dont like being got at.  If a man in my
employment did it, I should sack him.  If a member of my club did it,
I should cut him.  If he went too far with it, I should bring his
conduct before the committee.  I might even punch his head, if it came
to that.  Well, who and what is an author that he should be privileged
to take liberties that are not allowed to other men?
MRS TARLETON.  You see, John!  What have I always told you?  Johnny
has as much to say for himself as anybody when he likes.
JOHNNY.  I'm no fool, mother, whatever some people may fancy.  I dont
set up to have as many ideas as the Governor; but what ideas I have
are consecutive, at all events.  I can think as well as talk.
BENTLEY.  _[to Tarleton, chuckling]_  Had you there, old man, hadnt
he?  You are rather all over the shop with your ideas, aint you?
JOHNNY.  _[handsomely]_  I'm not saying anything against you,
Governor.  But I do say that the time has come for sane, healthy,
unpretending men like me to make a stand against this conspiracy of
the writing and talking and artistic lot to put us in the back row.
It isnt a fact that we're inferior to them:  it's a put-up job; and
it's they that have put the job up.  It's we that run the country for
them; and all the thanks we get is to be told we're Philistines and
vulgar tradesmen and sordid city men and so forth, and that theyre all
angels of light and leading.  The time has come to assert ourselves
and put a stop to their stuck-up nonsense.  Perhaps if we had nothing
better to do than talking or writing, we could do it better than they.
Anyhow, theyre the failures and refuse of business (hardly a man of
them that didnt begin in an office) and we're the successes of it.
Thank God I havnt failed yet at anything; and I dont believe I should
fail at literature if it would pay me to turn my hand to it.
BENTLEY.  Hear, hear!
MRS TARLETON.  Fancy you writing a book, Johnny!  Do you think he
could, Lord Summerhays?
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Why not?  As a matter of fact all the really
prosperous authors I have met since my return to England have been
very like him.
TARLETON.  _[again impressed]_  Thats an idea.  Thats a new idea.  I
believe I ought to have made Johnny an author.  Ive never said so
before for fear of hurting his feelings, because, after all, the lad
cant help it; but Ive never thought Johnny worth tuppence as a man of
business.
