
JOHNNY.  _[sarcastic]_  Oh!  You think youve always kept that to
yourself, do you, Governor?  I know your opinion of me as well as you
know it yourself.  It takes one man of business to appreciate another;
and you arnt, and you never have been, a real man of business.  I know
where Tarleton's would have been three of four times if it hadnt been
for me.  _[With a snort and a nod to emphasize the implied warning, he
retreats to the Turkish bath, and lolls against it with an air of
good-humoured indifference]._
TARLETON.  Well, who denies it?  Youre quite right, my boy.  I don't
mind confessing to you all that the circumstances that condemned me to
keep a shop are the biggest tragedy in modern life.  I ought to have
been a writer.  I'm essentially a man of ideas.  When I was a young
man I sometimes used to pray that I might fail, so that I should be
justified in giving up business and doing something:  something
first-class.  But it was no good:  I couldnt fail.  I said to myself
that if I could only once go to my Chickabiddy here and shew her a
chartered accountant's statement proving that I'd made 20 pounds less
than last year, I could ask her to let me chance Johnny's and
Hypatia's future by going into literature.  But it was no good.  First
it was 250 pounds more than last year.  Then it was 700 pounds.  Then
it was 2000 pounds.  Then I saw it was no use:  Prometheus was chained
to his rock:  read Shelley:  read Mrs Browning.  Well, well, it was
not to be.  _[He rises solemnly]._  Lord Summerhays:  I ask you to
excuse me for a few moments.  There are times when a man needs to
meditate in solitude on his destiny.  A chord is touched; and he sees
the drama of his life as a spectator sees a play.  Laugh if you feel
inclined:  no man sees the comic side of it more than I.  In the
theatre of life everyone may be amused except the actor.
_[Brightening]_  Theres an idea in this:  an idea for a picture.  What
a pity young Bentley is not a painter!  Tarleton meditating on his
destiny.  Not in a toga.  Not in the trappings of the tragedian or the
philosopher.  In plain coat and trousers:  a man like any other man.
And beneath that coat and trousers a human soul.  Tarleton's
Underwear!  _[He goes out gravely into the vestibule]._
MRS TARLETON.  _[fondly]_  I suppose it's a wife's partiality, Lord
Summerhays; but I do think John is really great.  I'm sure he was
meant to be a king.  My father looked down on John, because he was a
rate collector, and John kept a shop.  It hurt his pride to have to
borrow money so often from John; and he used to console himself by
saying, "After all, he's only a linendraper."  But at last one day he
said to me, "John is a king."
BENTLEY.  How much did he borrow on that occasion?
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  _[sharply]_  Bentley!
MRS TARLETON.  Oh, dont scold the child:  he'd have to say something
like that if it was to be his last word on earth.  Besides, hes quite
right:  my poor father had asked for his usual five pounds; and John
gave him a hundred in his big way.  Just like a king.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Not at all.  I had five kings to manage in
Jinghiskahn; and I think you do your husband some injustice, Mrs
Tarleton.  They pretended to like me because I kept their brothers
from murdering them; but I didnt like them.  And I like Tarleton.
MRS TARLETON.  Everybody does.  I really must go and make the cook do
him a Welsh rabbit.  He expects one on special occasions.  _[She goes
to the inner door]._  Johnny:  when he comes back ask him where we're
to put that new Turkish bath.  Turkish baths are his latest.  _[She
goes out]._
JOHNNY.  _[coming forward again]_  Now that the Governor has given
himself away, and the old lady's gone, I'll tell you something, Lord
Summerhays.  If you study men whove made an enormous pile in business
without being keen on money, youll find that they all have a slate
off.  The Governor's a wonderful man; but hes not quite all there, you
know.  If you notice, hes different from me; and whatever my failings
may be, I'm a sane man.  Erratic:  thats what he is.  And the danger
is that some day he'll give the whole show away.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Giving the show away is a method like any other
method.  Keeping it to yourself is only another method.  I should keep
an open mind about it.
JOHNNY.  Has it ever occurred to you that a man with an open mind must
be a bit of a scoundrel?  If you ask me, I like a man who makes up his
mind once for all as to whats right and whats wrong and then sticks to
it.  At all events you know where to have him.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  That may not be his object.
BENTLEY.  He may want to have you, old chap.
JOHNNY.  Well, let him.  If a member of my club wants to steal my
umbrella, he knows where to find it.  If a man put up for the club who
had an open mind on the subject of property in umbrellas, I should
blackball him.  An open mind is all very well in clever talky-talky;
but in conduct and in business give me solid ground.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Yes:  the quicksands make life difficult.  Still,
there they are.  It's no use pretending theyre rocks.
JOHNNY.  I dont know.  You can draw a line and make other chaps toe
it.  Thats what I call morality.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Very true.  But you dont make any progress when
youre toeing a line.
HYPATIA.  _[suddenly, as if she could bear no more of it]_  Bentley:
do go and play tennis with Johnny.  You must take exercise.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Do, my boy, do.  _[To Johnny]_  Take him out and
make him skip about.
BENTLEY.  _[rising reluctantly]_  I promised you two inches more round
my chest this summer.  I tried exercises with an indiarubber expander;
but I wasnt strong enough:  instead of my expanding it, it crumpled me
up.  Come along, Johnny.
JOHNNY.  Do you no end of good, young chap.  _[He goes out with
Bentley through the pavilion]._
_Hypatia throws aside her work with an enormous sigh of relief._
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  At last!
HYPATIA.  At last.  Oh, if I might only have a holiday in an asylum
for the dumb.  How I envy the animals!  They cant talk.  If Johnny
could only put back his ears or wag his tail instead of laying down
the law, how much better it would be!  We should know when he was
cross and when he was pleased; and thats all we know now, with all his
talk.  It never stops:  talk, talk, talk, talk.  Thats my life.  All
the day I listen to mamma talking; at dinner I listen to papa talking;
and when papa stops for breath I listen to Johnny talking.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  You make me feel very guilty.  I talk too, I'm
afraid.
