
HYPATIA.  Oh, I dont mind that, because your talk is a novelty.  But
it must have been dreadful for your daughters.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  I suppose so.
HYPATIA.  If parents would only realize how they bore their children!
Three or four times in the last half hour Ive been on the point of
screaming.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Were we very dull?
HYPATIA.  Not at all:  you were very clever.  Thats whats so hard to
bear, because it makes it so difficult to avoid listening.  You see,
I'm young; and I do so want something to happen.  My mother tells me
that when I'm her age, I shall be only too glad that nothing's
happened; but I'm not her age; so what good is that to me?  Theres my
father in the garden, meditating on his destiny.  All very well for
him:  hes had a destiny to meditate on; but I havnt had any destiny
yet.  Everything's happened to him:  nothing's happened to me.  Thats
why this unending talk is so maddeningly uninteresting to me.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  It would be worse if we sat in silence.
HYPATIA.  No it wouldnt.  If you all sat in silence, as if you were
waiting for something to happen, then there would be hope even if
nothing did happen.  But this eternal cackle, cackle, cackle about
things in general is only fit for old, old, OLD people.  I suppose it
means something to them:  theyve had their fling.  All I listen for is
some sign of it ending in something; but just when it seems to be
coming to a point, Johnny or papa just starts another hare; and it all
begins over again; and I realize that it's never going to lead
anywhere and never going to stop.  Thats when I want to scream.  I
wonder how you can stand it.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Well, I'm old and garrulous myself, you see.
Besides, I'm not here of my own free will, exactly.  I came because
you ordered me to come.
HYPATIA.  Didnt you want to come?
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  My dear:  after thirty years of managing other
people's business, men lose the habit of considering what they want or
dont want.
HYPATIA.  Oh, dont begin to talk about what men do, and about thirty
years experience.  If you cant get off that subject, youd better send
for Johnny and papa and begin it all over again.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  I'm sorry.  I beg your pardon.
HYPATIA.  I asked you, didnt you want to come?
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  I did not stop to consider whether I wanted or not,
because when I read your letter I knew I had to come.
HYPATIA.  Why?
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  Oh come, Miss Tarleton!  Really, really!  Dont force
me to call you a blackmailer to your face.  You have me in your power;
and I do what you tell me very obediently.  Dont ask me to pretend I
do it of my own free will.
HYPATIA.  I dont know what a blackmailer is.  I havnt even that much
experience.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  A blackmailer, my dear young lady, is a person who
knows a disgraceful secret in the life of another person, and extorts
money from that other person by threatening to make his secret public
unless the money is paid.
HYPATIA.  I havnt asked you for money.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  No; but you asked me to come down here and talk to
you; and you mentioned casually that if I didnt youd have nobody to
talk about me to but Bentley.  That was a threat, was it not?
HYPATIA.  Well, I wanted you to come.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  In spite of my age and my unfortunate talkativeness?
HYPATIA.  I like talking to you.  I can let myself go with you.  I can
say things to you I cant say to other people.
LORD SUMMERHAYS.  I wonder why?
HYPATIA.  Well, you are the only really clever, grown-up, high-class,
experienced man I know who has given himself away to me by making an
utter fool of himself with me.  You cant wrap yourself up in your toga
after that.  You cant give yourself airs with me.
