
"The headstone, with the foot on it, was just here," said Ned, in much
perplexity, "and, as far as I can judge, the old sunken grave exactly
marked out the space of this new one." [Endnote: 1.]
"It is a shame," said Elsie, much shocked at the indecorum, "that the
new person should be thrust in here; for the old one was a friend of
ours."
"But what has become of the headstone!" exclaimed the young English
stranger.
During their perplexity, a person had approached the group, wading
through the snow from the gateway giving entrance from the street; a
gaunt figure, with stooping shoulders, over one of which was a spade
and some other tool fit for delving in the earth; and in his face there
was the sort of keen, humorous twinkle that grave-diggers somehow seem
to get, as if the dolorous character of their business necessitated
something unlike itself by an inevitable reaction.
"Well, Doctor," said he, with a shrewd wink in his face, "are you
looking for one of your patients? The man who is to be put to bed here
was never caught in your spider's web."
"No," said Doctor Grimshawe; "when my patients have done with me, I
leave them to you and the old Nick, and never trouble myself about them
more. What I want to know is, why you have taken upon you to steal a
man's grave, after he has had immemorial possession of it. By what
right have you dug up this bed, undoing the work of a predecessor of
yours, who has long since slept in one of his own furrows?"
"Why, Doctor," said the grave-digger, looking quietly into the
cavernous pit which he had hollowed, "it is against common sense that a
dead man should think to keep a grave to himself longer than till you
can take up his substance in a shovel. It would be a strange thing
enough, if, when living families are turned out of their homes twice or
thrice in a generation, (as they are likely to be in our new
government,) a dead man should think he must sleep in one spot till the
day of judgment. No; turn about, I say, to these old fellows. As long
as they can decently be called dead men, I let them lie; when they are
nothing but dust, I just take leave to stir them on occasion. This is
the way we do things under the republic, whatever your customs be in
the old country."
"Matters are very much the same in any old English churchyard," said
the English stranger. "But, my good friend, I have come three thousand
miles, partly to find this grave, and am a little disappointed to find
my labor lost."
"Ah! and you are the man my father was looking for," said the grave-
digger, nodding his head at Mr. Hammond. "My father, who was a grave-
digger afore me, died four and thirty years ago, when we were under the
King; and says he, 'Ebenezer, do not you turn up a sod in this spot,
till you have turned up every other in the ground.' And I have always
obeyed him."
"And what was the reason of such a singular prohibition?" asked
Hammond.
"My father knew," said the grave-digger, "and he told me the reason
too; but since we are under the republic, we have given up remembering
those old-world legends, as we used to. The newspapers keep us from
talking in the chimney-corner; and so things go out of our minds. An
old man, with his stories of what he has seen, and what his great-
grandfather saw before him, is of little account since newspapers came
up. Stop--I remember--no, I forget,--it was something about the grave
holding a witness, who had been sought before and might be again."
"And that is all you know about it?" said Hammond.
