
"All,--every mite," said the old grave-digger. "But my father knew, and
would have been glad to tell you the whole story. There was a great
deal of wisdom and knowledge, about graves especially, buried out
yonder where my old father was put away, before the Stamp Act was
thought of. But it is no great matter, I suppose. People don't care
about old graves in these times. They just live, and put the dead out
of sight and out of mind."
"Well; but what have you done with the headstone?" said the Doctor.
"You can't have eaten it up."
"No, no, Doctor," said the grave-digger, laughing; "it would crack
better teeth than mine, old and crumbly as it is. And yet I meant to do
something with it that is akin to eating; for my oven needs a new
floor, and I thought to take this stone, which would stand the fire
well. But here," continued he, scraping away the snow with his shovel,
a task in which little Ned gave his assistance,--"here is the
headstone, just as I have always seen it, and as my father saw it
before me."
The ancient memorial, being cleared of snow, proved to be a slab of
freestone, with some rude traces of carving in bas-relief around the
border, now much effaced, and an impression, which seemed to be as much
like a human foot as anything else, sunk into the slab; but this device
was wrought in a much more clumsy way than the ornamented border, and
evidently by an unskilful hand. Beneath was an inscription, over which
the hard, flat lichens had grown, and done their best to obliterate it,
although the following words might be written [Endnote: 2] or guessed:--
"Here lyeth the mortal part of Thomas Colcord, an upright man, of
tender and devout soul, who departed this troublous life September ye
nineteenth, 1667, aged 57 years and nine months. Happier in his death
than in his lifetime. Let his bones be."
The name, Colcord, was somewhat defaced; it was impossible, in the
general disintegration of the stone, to tell whether wantonly, or with
a purpose of altering and correcting some error in the spelling, or, as
occurred to Hammond, to change the name entirely.
"This is very unsatisfactory," said Hammond, "but very curious, too.
But this certainly is the impress of what was meant for a human foot,
and coincides strangely with the legend of the Bloody Footstep,--the
mark of the foot that trod in the blessed King Charles's blood."
"For that matter," said the grave-digger, "it comes into my mind that
my father used to call it the stamp of Satan's foot, because he claimed
the dead man for his own. It is plain to see that there was a deep deft
between two of the toes."
"There are two ways of telling that legend," remarked the Doctor. "But
did you find nothing in the grave, Hewen?"
"O, yes,--a bone or two,--as much as could be expected after above a
hundred years," said the grave-digger. "I tossed them aside; and if you
are curious about them, you will find them when the snow melts. That
was all; and it would have been unreasonable in old Colcord--especially
in these republican times--to have wanted to keep his grave any longer,
when there was so little of him left."
"I must drop the matter here, then," said Hammond, with a sigh. "Here,
my friend, is a trifle for your trouble."
"No trouble," said the grave-digger, "and in these republican times we
can't take anything for nothing, because it won't do for a poor man to
take off his hat and say thank you."
