
Nevertheless, he did take the silver, and winked a sort of
acknowledgment.
The Doctor, with unwonted hospitality, invited the English stranger to
dine in his house; and though there was no pretence of cordiality in
the invitation, Mr. Hammond accepted it, being probably influenced by
curiosity to make out some definite idea of the strange household in
which he found himself. Doctor Grimshawe having taken it upon him to be
host,--for, up to this time, the stranger stood upon his own
responsibility, and, having voluntarily presented himself to the
Doctor, had only himself to thank for any scant courtesy he might
meet,--but now the grim Doctor became genial after his own fashion. At
dinner he produced a bottle of port, which made the young Englishman
almost fancy himself on the other side of the water; and he entered
into a conversation, which I fancy was the chief object which the grim
Doctor had in view in showing himself in so amiable a light, [Endnote:
3] for in the course of it the stranger was insensibly led to disclose
many things, as it were of his own accord, relating to the part of
England whence he came, and especially to the estate and family which
have been before mentioned,--the present state of that family, together
with other things that he seemed to himself to pour out naturally,--
for, at last, he drew himself up, and attempted an excuse.
"Your good wine," said he, "or the unexpected accident of meeting a
countryman, has made me unusually talkative, and on subjects, I fear,
which have not a particular interest for you."
"I have not quite succeeded in shaking off my country, as you see,"
said Doctor Grimshawe, "though I neither expect nor wish ever to see it
again."
There was something rather ungracious in the grim Doctor's response,
and as they now adjourned to his study, and the Doctor betook himself
to his pipe and tumbler, the young Englishman sought to increase his
acquaintance with the two children, both of whom showed themselves
graciously inclined towards him; more warmly so than they had been to
the schoolmaster, as he was the only other guest whom they had ever
met.
"Would you like to see England, my little fellow?" he inquired of Ned.
"Oh, very much! more than anything else in the world," replied the boy,
his eyes gleaming and his cheeks flushing with the earnestness of his
response; for, indeed, the question stirred up all the dreams and
reveries which the child had cherished, far back into the dim regions
of his memory. After what the Doctor had told him of his origin, he had
never felt any home feeling here; it seemed to him that he was
wandering Ned, whom the wind had blown from afar. Somehow or other,
from many circumstances which he put together and seethed in his own
childish imagination, it seemed to him that he was to go back to that
far old country, and there wander among the green, ivy-grown, venerable
scenes; the older he grew, the more his mind took depth, the stronger
was this fancy in him; though even to Elsie he had scarcely breathed
it.
"So strong a desire," said the stranger, smiling at his earnestness,
"will be sure to work out its own accomplishment. I shall meet you in
England, my young friend, one day or another. And you, my little girl,
are you as anxious to see England as your brother?"
"Ned is not my brother," said little Elsie.
The Doctor here interposed some remark on a different subject; for it
was observable that he never liked to have the conversation turn on
these children, their parentage, or relations to each other or himself.
The children were sent to bed; and the young Englishman, finding the
conversation lag, and his host becoming gruffer and less communicative
than he thought quite courteous, retired. But before he went, however,
he could not refrain from making a remark on the gigantic spider, which
was swinging like a pendulum above the Doctor's head.
"What a singular pet!" said he; for the nervous part of him had
latterly been getting uppermost, so that it disturbed him; in fact, the
spider above and the grim man below equally disturbed him. "Are you a
naturalist? Have you noted his habits?"
