
"Yes," said the Doctor, "I have learned from his web how to weave a
plot, and how to catch my victim and devour him!"
"Thank God," said the Englishman, as he issued forth into the cold gray
night, "I have escaped the grim fellow's web, at all events. How
strange a group,--those two sweet children, that grim old man!"
As regards this matter of the ancient grave, it remains to be recorded,
that, when the snow melted, little Ned and Elsie went to look at the
spot, where, by this time, there was a little hillock with the brown
sods laid duly upon it, which the coming spring would make green. By
the side of it they saw, with more curiosity than repugnance, a few
fragments of crumbly bones, which they plausibly conjectured to have
appertained to some part of the framework of the ancient Colcord,
wherewith he had walked through the troublous life of which his
gravestone spoke. And little Elsie, whose eyes were very sharp, and her
observant qualities of the quickest, found something which Ned at first
pronounced to be only a bit of old iron, incrusted with earth; but
Elsie persisted to knock off some of the earth that seemed to have
incrusted it, and discovered a key. The children ran with their prize
to the grim Doctor, who took it between his thumb and finger, turned it
over and over, and then proceeded to rub it with a chemical substance
which soon made it bright. It proved to be a silver key, of antique and
curious workmanship.
"Perhaps this is what Mr. Hammond was in search of," said Ned. "What a
pity he is gone! Perhaps we can send it after him."
"Nonsense," said the gruff Doctor.
And attaching the key to a chain, which he took from a drawer, and
which seemed to be gold, he hung it round Ned's neck.
"When you find a lock for this key," said he, "open it, and consider
yourself heir of whatever treasure is revealed there!"
Ned continued that sad, fatal habit of growing out of childhood, as
boys will, until he was now about ten years old, and little Elsie as
much as six or seven. He looked healthy, but pale; something there was
in the character and influences of his life that made him look as if he
were growing up in a shadow, with less sunshine than he needed for a
robust and exuberant development, though enough to make his
intellectual growth tend towards a little luxuriance, in some
directions. He was likely to turn out a fanciful, perhaps a poetic
youth; young as he was, there had been already discoveries, on the grim
Doctor's part, of certain blotted and clumsily scrawled scraps of
paper, the chirography on which was arrayed in marshalled lines of
unequal length, and each commanded by a capital letter and marching on
from six to ten lame feet. Doctor Grim inspected these things
curiously, and to say the truth most scornfully, before he took them to
light his pipe withal; but they told him little as regarded this boy's
internal state, being mere echoes, and very lugubrious ones, of poetic
strains that were floating about in the atmosphere of that day, long
before any now remembered bard had begun to sing. But there were the
rudiments of a poetic and imaginative mind within the boy, if its
subsequent culture should be such as the growth of that delicate flower
requires; a brooding habit taking outward things into itself and
imbuing them with its own essence until, after they had lain there
awhile, they assumed a relation both to truth and to himself, and
became mediums to affect other minds with the magnetism of his own. He
lived far too much an inward life for healthfulness, at his age; the
peculiarity of his situation, a child of mystery, with certain reaches
and vistas that seemed to promise a bright solution of his mystery,
keeping his imagination always awake and strong. That castle in the
air,--so much more vivid than other castles, because it had perhaps a
real substance of ancient, ivy-grown, hewn stone somewhere,--that
visionary hall in England, with its surrounding woods and fine lawns,
and the beckoning shadows at the ancient windows, and that fearful
threshold, with the blood still glistening on it,--he dwelt and
wandered so much there, that he had no real life in the sombre house on
the corner of the graveyard; except that the loneliness of the latter,
and the grim Doctor with his grotesque surroundings, and then the great
ugly spider, and that odd, inhuman mixture of crusty Hannah, all served
to remove him out of the influences of common life. Little Elsie was
all that he had to keep life real, and substantial; and she, a child so
much younger than he, was influenced by the same circumstances, and
still more by himself, so that, as far as he could impart himself to
her, he led her hand in hand through the same dream-scenery amid which
he strayed himself. They knew not another child in town; the grim
Doctor was their only friend. As for Ned, this seclusion had its
customary and normal effect upon him; it had made him think
ridiculously high of his own gifts, powers, attainments, and at the
same time doubt whether they would pass with those of others; it made
him despise all flesh, as if he were of a superior race, and yet have
an idle and weak fear of coming in contact with them, from a dread of
his incompetency to cope with them; so he at once depreciated and
exalted, to an absurd degree, both himself and others.
"Ned," said the Doctor to him one day, in his gruffest tone, "you are
not turning out to be the boy I looked for and meant to make. I have
given you sturdy English instruction, and solidly grounded you in
matters that the poor superficial people and time merely skim over; I
looked to see the rudiments of a man in you, by this time; and you
begin to mope and pule as if your babyhood were coming back on you. You
seem to think more than a boy of your years should; and yet it is not
manly thought, nor ever will be so. What do you mean, boy, by making
all my care of you come to nothing, in this way?"
"I do my best, Doctor Grim," said Ned, with sullen dignity. "What you
teach me, I learn. What more can I do?"
"I'll tell you what, my fine fellow," quoth Doctor Grim, getting rude,
as was his habit. "You disappoint me, and I'll not bear it. I want you
to be a man; and I'll have you a man or nothing. If I had foreboded
such a fellow as you turn out to be, I never would have taken you from
the place where, as I once told you, I found you,--the almshouse!"
"O, Doctor Grim, Doctor Grim!" cried little Elsie, in a tone of grief
and bitter reproach.
