
Ned had risen slowly, as the Doctor uttered those last words, turning
as white as a sheet, and stood gazing at him, with large eyes, in which
there was a calm upbraiding; a strange dignity was in his childish
aspect, which was no longer childish, but seemed to have grown older
all in a moment.
"Sir," added the Doctor, incensed at the boy's aspect, "there is
nonsense that ought to be whipt out of you."
"You have said enough, sir," said the boy. "Would to God you had left
me where you found me![Endnote: 4] It was not my fault that you took me
from the alms-house. But it will be my fault if I ever eat another bit
of your bread, or stay under your roof an hour longer."
He was moving towards the door, but little Elsie sprung upon him and
caught him round the neck, although he repelled her with severe
dignity; and Doctor Grimshawe, after a look at the group in which a
bitter sort of mirth and mischief struggled with a better and kindlier
sentiment, at last flung his pipe into the chimney, hastily quaffed the
remnant of a tumbler, and shuffled after Ned, kicking off his old
slippers in his hurry. He caught the boy just by the door.
"Ned, Ned, my boy, I'm sorry for what I said," cried he. "I am a
guzzling old blockhead, and don't know how to treat a gentleman when he
honors me with his company. It is not in my blood nor breeding to have
such knowledge. Ned, you will make a man, and I lied if I said
otherwise. Come, I'm sorry, I'm sorry."
The boy was easily touched, at these years, as a boy ought to be; and
though he had not yet forgiven the grim Doctor, the tears, to his
especial shame, gushed out of his eyes in a torrent, and his whole
frame shook with sobs. The Doctor caught him in his arms, and hugged
him to his old tobacco-fragrant dressing-gown, hugged him like a bear,
as he was; so that poor Ned hardly knew whether he was embracing him
with his love, or squeezing him to death in his wrath.
"Ned," said he, "I'm not going to live a great while longer; I seem an
eternal nuisance to you, I know; but it's not so, I'm mortal and I feel
myself breaking up. Let us be friends while I live; for believe me,
Ned, I've done as well by you as I knew, and care for nothing, love
nothing, so much as you. Little Elsie here, yes. I love her too. But
that's different. You are a boy, and will be a man; and a man whom I
destine to do for me what it has been the object of my life to achieve.
Let us be friends. We will--we must be friends; and when old Doctor
Grim, worthless wretch that he is, sleeps in his grave, you shall not
have the pang of having parted from him in unkindness. Forgive me, Ned;
and not only that, but love me better than ever; for though I am a
hasty old wretch, I am not altogether evil as regards you."
I know not whether the Doctor would have said all this, if the day had
not been pretty well advanced, and if his potations had not been many;
but, at any rate, he spoke no more than he felt, and his emotions
thrilled through the sensitive system of the boy, and quite melted him
down. He forgave Doctor Grim, and, as he asked, loved him better than
ever; and so did Elsie. Then it was so sweet, so good, to have had this
one outgush of affection,--he, poor child, who had no memory of
mother's kisses, or of being cared for out of tenderness, and whose
heart had been hungry, all his life, for some such thing; and probably
Doctor Grim, in his way, had the same kind of enjoyment of this
passionate crisis; so that though, the next day, they all three looked
at one another a little ashamed, yet it had some remote analogy to that
delicious embarrassment of two lovers, at their first meeting after
they know all.
CHAPTER X.
