
"Neither of you, nor of the Devil," murmured the Doctor,--"of nobody
but little Ned and that milksop Colcord. If I have wronged anybody it
is them. As for the rest, let the day of judgment come. Doctor Grim is
ready to fling down his burden at the judgment seat and have it sorted
there."
Then he would lie back in his chair and look up at the great spider,
who (or else it was Elsie's fancy) seemed to be making great haste in
those days, filling out his web as if he had less time than was
desirable for such a piece of work.
One morning the Doctor arose as usual, and after breakfast (at which he
ate nothing, and even after filling his coffee-cup half with brandy,
half with coffee, left it untouched, save sipping a little out of a
teaspoon) he went to the study (with a rather unsteady gait, chiefly
remarkable because it was so early in the day), and there established
himself with his pipe, as usual, and his medical books and machines,
and his manuscript. But he seemed troubled, irresolute, weak, and at
last he blew out a volley of oaths, with no apparent appropriateness,
and then seemed to be communing with himself.
"It is of no use to carry this on any further," said he, fiercely, in a
decided tone, as if he had taken a resolution. "Elsie, my girl, come
and kiss me."
So Elsie kissed him, amid all the tobacco-smoke which was curling out
of his mouth, as if there were a half-extinguished furnace in his
inside.
"Elsie, my little girl, I mean to die to-day," said the old man.
"To die, dear Doctor Grim? O, no! O, no!"
"O, yes! Elsie," said the Doctor, in a very positive tone. "I have kept
myself alive by main force these three weeks, and I find it hardly
worth the trouble. It requires so much exercise of will;--and I am
weary, weary. The pipe does not taste good, the brandy bewilders me.
Ned is gone, too;--I have nothing else to do. I have wrought this many
a year for an object, and now, taking all things into consideration, I
don't know whether to execute it or no. Ned is gone; there is nobody
but my little Elsie,--a good child, but not quite enough to live for. I
will let myself die, therefore, before sunset."
"O, no! Doctor Grim. Let us send for Ned, and you will think it worth
the trouble of living."
"No, Elsie, I want no one near my death-bed; when I have finished a
little business, you must go out of the room, and I will turn my face
to the wall, and say good-night. But first send crusty Hannah for Mr.
Pickering."
He was a lawyer of the town, a man of classical and antiquarian tastes,
as well as legal acquirement, and some of whose pursuits had brought
him and Doctor Grim occasionally together. Besides calling this
gentleman, crusty Hannah (of her own motion, but whether out of good
will to the poor Doctor Grim, or from a tendency to mischief inherent
in such unnatural mixtures as hers) summoned, likewise, in all haste, a
medical man,--and, as it happened, the one who had taken a most
decidedly hostile part to our Doctor,--and a clergyman, who had often
devoted our poor friend to the infernal regions, almost by name, in his
sermons; a kindness, to say the truth, which the Doctor had fully
reciprocated in many anathemas against the clergyman. These two
worthies, arriving simultaneously, and in great haste, were forthwith
ushered to where the Doctor lay half reclining in his study; and upon
showing their heads, the Doctor flew into an awful rage, threatening,
in his customary improper way, when angry, to make them smell the
infernal regions, and proceeding to put his threats into execution by
flinging his odorous tobacco-pipe in the face of the medical man, and
rebaptizing the clergyman with a half-emptied tumbler of brandy and
water, and sending a terrible vociferation of oaths after them both, as
they clattered hastily down the stairs. Really, that crusty Hannah must
have been the Devil, for she stood grinning and chuckling at the foot
of the stairs, curtseying grotesquely.
"He terrible man, our old Doctor Grim," quoth crusty Hannah. "He drive
us all to the wicked place before him."
