
This, however, was the final outbreak of poor Doctor Grim. Indeed, he
almost went off at once in the exhaustion that succeeded. The lawyer
arrived shortly after, and was shut up with him for a considerable
space; after which crusty Hannah was summoned, and desired to call two
indifferent persons from the street, as witnesses to a will; and this
document was duly executed, and given into the possession of the
lawyer. This done, and the lawyer having taken his leave, the grim
Doctor desired, and indeed commanded imperatively, that crusty Hannah
should quit the room, having first--we are sorry to say--placed the
brandy-bottle within reach of his hand, and leaving him propped up in
his arm-chair, in which he leaned back, gazing up at the great spider,
who was, dangling overhead. As the door closed behind crusty Hannah's
grinning and yet strangely interested face, the Doctor caught a glimpse
of little Elsie in the passage, bathed in tears, and lingering and
looking earnestly into the chamber. [Endnote: 3.]
Seeing the poor little girl, the Doctor cried out to her, half
wrathfully, half tenderly, "Don't cry, you little wretch! Come and kiss
me once more." So Elsie, restraining her grief with a great effort, ran
to him and gave him a last kiss.
"Tell Ned," said the Doctor solemnly, "to think no more of the old
English hall, or of the bloody footstep, or of the silver key, or any
of all that nonsense. Good by, my dear!" Then he said, with his
thunderous and imperative tone, "Let no one come near me till to-morrow
morning."
So that parting was over; but still the poor little desolate child
hovered by the study door all day long, afraid to enter, afraid to
disobey, but unable to go. Sometimes she heard the Doctor muttering, as
was his wont; once she fancied he was praying, and dropping on her
knees, she also prayed fervently, and perhaps acceptably; then, all at
once, the Doctor called out, in a loud voice, "No, Ned, no. Drop it,
drop it!"
And then there was an utter silence, unbroken forevermore by the lips
that had uttered so many objectionable things.
And finally, after an interval which had been prescribed by the grim
Doctor, a messenger was sent by the lawyer to our friend Ned, to inform
him of this sad event, and to bring him back temporarily to town, for
the purpose of hearing what were his prospects, and what disposition
was now to be made of him. We shall not attempt to describe the grief,
astonishment, and almost incredulity of Ned, on discovering that a
person so mixed up with and built into his whole life as the stalwart
Doctor Grimshawe had vanished out of it thus unexpectedly, like
something thin as a vapor,--like a red flame, that one [instant] is
very bright in its lurid ray, and then is nothing at all, amid the
darkness. To the poor boy's still further grief and astonishment, he
found, on reaching the spot that he called home, that little Elsie (as
the lawyer gave him to understand, by the express orders of the Doctor,
and for reasons of great weight) had been conveyed away by a person
under whose guardianship she was placed, and that Ned could not be
informed of the place. Even crusty Hannah had been provided for and
disposed of, and was no longer to be found. Mr. Pickering explained to
Ned the dispositions in his favor which had been made by his deceased
friend, who, out of a moderate property, had left him the means of
obtaining as complete an education as the country would afford, and of
supporting himself until his own exertions would be likely to give him
the success which his abilities were calculated to win. The remainder
of his property (a less sum than that thus disposed of) was given to
little Elsie, with the exception of a small provision to crusty Hannah,
with the recommendation from the Doctor that she should retire and
spend the remainder of her life among her own people. There was
likewise a certain sum left for the purpose of editing and printing
(with a dedication to the Medical Society of the State) an account of
the process of distilling balm from cobwebs; the bequest being worded
in so singular a way that it was just as impossible as it had ever been
to discover whether the grim Doctor was in earnest or no.
What disappointed the boy, in a greater degree than we shall try to
express, was the lack of anything in reference to those dreams and
castles of the air,--any explanation of his birth; so that he was left
with no trace of it, except just so far as the alms-house whence the
Doctor had taken him. There all traces of his name and descent
vanished, just as if he had been made up of the air, as an aerolite
seems to be before it tumbles on the earth with its mysterious iron.
The poor boy, in his bewilderment, had not yet come to feel what his
grief was; it was not to be conceived, in a few days, that he was
deprived of every person, thing, or thought that had hitherto kept his
heart warm. He tried to make himself feel it, yearning for this grief
as for his sole friend. Being, for the present, domiciled with the
lawyer, he obtained the key of his former home, and went through the
desolate house that he knew so well, and which now had such a silent,
cold, familiar strangeness, with none in it, though the ghosts of the
grim Doctor, of laughing little Elsie, of crusty Hannah,--dead and
alive alike,--were all there, and his own ghost among them; for he
himself was dead, that is, his former self, which he recognized as
himself, had passed away, as they were. In the study everything looked
as formerly, yet with a sort of unreality, as if it would dissolve and
vanish on being touched; and, indeed, it partly proved so; for over the
Doctor's chair seemed still to hang the great spider, but on looking
closer at it, and finally touching it with the end of the Doctor's
stick, Ned discovered that it was merely the skin, shell, apparition,
of the real spider,[Endnote: 4] the reality of whom, it is to be
supposed, had followed the grim Doctor, whithersoever he had gone.
A thought struck Ned while he was here; he remembered the secret niche
in the wall, where he had once seen the Doctor deposit some papers. He
looked, and there they were. Who was the heir of those papers, if not
he? If there were anything wrong in appropriating them, it was not
perceptible to him in the desolation, anxiety, bewilderment, and
despair of that moment. He grasped the papers, and hurried from the
room and down the stairs, afraid to look round, and half expecting to
hear the gruff voice of Doctor Grim thundering after him to bring them
back.
Then Ned went out of the back door, and found his way to the Doctor's
new grave, which, as it happened, was dug close beside that one which
occupied the place of the one which the stranger had come to seek; and,
as if to spite the Doctor's professional antipathies, it lay beside a
grave of an old physician and surgeon, one Doctor Summerton, who used
to help diseases and kill patients above a hundred years ago. But
Doctor Grim was undisturbed by these neighbors, and apparently not more
by the grief of poor little Ned, who hid his face in the crumbly earth
of the grave, and the sods that had not begun to grow, and wept as if
his heart would break.
But the heart never breaks on the first grave; and, after many graves,
it gets so obtuse that nothing can break it.
And now let the mists settle down over the trail of our story, hiding
it utterly on its onward course, for a long way to come, until, after
many years, they may disperse and discover something which, were it
worth while to follow it through all that obscurity, would prove to be
the very same track which that boy was treading when we last saw him,--
though it may have lain over land and sea since then; but the footsteps
that trod there are treading here.
