
"Sir, there has been a search."
"Leave the pistols," said the voice.
Again, [Endnote: 2] after this time, a long time extending to years,
let us look back into that dim chamber, wherever in the world it was,
into which we had a glimpse, and where we saw apparently a fugitive.
How looks it now? Still dim,--perhaps as dim as ever,--but our eyes, or
our imagination, have gained an acquaintance, a customariness, with the
medium; so that we can discern things now a little more distinctly than
of old. Possibly, there may have been something cleared away that
obstructed the light; at any rate, we see now the whereabouts--better
than we did. It is an oblong room, lofty but narrow, and some ten paces
in length; its floor is heavily carpeted, so that the tread makes no
sound; it is hung with old tapestry, or carpet, wrought with the hand
long ago, and still retaining much of the ancient colors, where there
was no sunshine to fade them; worked on them is some tapestried story,
done by Catholic hands, of saints or devils, looking each equally grave
and solemnly. The light, whence comes it? There is no window; but it
seems to come through a stone, or something like it,--a dull gray
medium, that makes noonday look like evening twilight. Though sometimes
there is an effect as if something were striving to melt itself through
this dull medium, and--never making a shadow--yet to produce the effect
of a cloud gathering thickly over the sun. There is a chimney; yes, a
little grate in which burns a coal fire, a dim smouldering fire, it
might be an illumination, if that were desirable.
What is the furniture? An antique chair,--one chair, no more. A table,
many-footed, of dark wood; it holds writing-materials, a book, too, on
its face, with the dust gathered on its back. There is, moreover, a
sort of antique box, or coffer, of some dark wood, that seems to have
been wrought or carved with skill, wondrous skill, of some period when
the art of carving wainscot with arms and devices was much practised;
so that on this coffer--some six feet long it is, and two or three
broad--most richly wrought, you see faces in relief of knight and dame,
lords, heraldic animals; some story, very likely, told, almost
revelling in Gothic sculpture of wood, like what we have seen on the
marble sarcophagus of the old Greeks. It has, too, a lock, elaborately
ornamented and inlaid with silver.
What else; only the spider's webs spinning strangely over everything;
over that light which comes into the room through the stone; over
everything. And now we see, in a corner, a strange great spider
curiously variegated. The ugly, terrible, seemingly poisonous thing
makes us shudder. [Endnote: 3.]
What, else? There are pistols; they lie on the coffer! There is a
curiously shaped Italian dagger, of the kind which in a groove has
poison that makes its wound mortal. On the old mantel-piece, over the
fireplace, there is a vial in which are kept certain poisons. It would
seem as if some one had meditated suicide; or else that the foul fiend
had put all sorts of implements of self-destruction in his way; so
that, in some frenzied moment, he might kill himself.
But the inmate! There he is; but the frenzied alarm in which we last
saw him seems to have changed its character. No throb, now; no passion;
no frenzy of fear or despair. He sits dull and motionless. See; his
cheek is very pale; his hair long and dishevelled. His beard has grown,
and curls round his face. He has on a sleeping-gown, a long robe as of
one who abides within doors, and has nothing to do with outward
elements; a pair of slippers. A dull, dreamy reverie seems to have
possessed him. Hark! there is again a stealthy step on the floor, and
the serving-man is here again. There is a peering, anxious curiosity in
his face, as he struts towards him, a sort of enjoyment, one would say,
in the way in which he looks at the strange case.
"I am here, you know," he says, at length, after feasting his eyes for
some time on the spectacle.
"I hear you!" says the young man, in a dull, indifferent tone.
"Will not your honor walk out to-day?" says the man. "It is long now
since your honor has taken the air."
"Very long," says the master, "but I will not go out to-day. What
weather is it?"
"Sunny, bright, a summer day," says the man. "But you would never know
it in these damp walls. The last winter's chill is here yet. Had not
your honor better go forth?"
