
It might seem that there was a sort of sneer, deeply hidden under
respect and obeisance, in the man's words and craftily respectful tone;
deeply hidden, but conveying a more subtile power on that account. At
all events, the master seemed aroused from his state of dull
indifference, and writhed as with poignant anguish--an infused poison
in his veins--as the man spoke.
"Have you procured me that new drug I spoke of?" asked the master.
"Here it is," said the man, putting a small package on the table.
"Is it effectual?"
"So said the apothecary," answered the man; "and I tried it on a dog.
He sat quietly a quarter of an hour; then had a spasm or two, and was
dead. But, your honor, the dead carcass swelled horribly."
"Hush, villain! Have there--have there been inquiries for me,--mention
of me?"
"O, none, sir,--none, sir. Affairs go on bravely,--the new live. The
world fills up. The gap is not vacant. There is no mention of you.
Marry, at the alehouse I heard some idle topers talking of a murder
that took place some few years since, and saying that Heaven's
vengeance would come for it yet."
"Silence, villain, there is no such thing," said the young man; and,
with a laugh that seemed like scorn, he relapsed into his state of
sullen indifference; during which the servant stole away, after looking
at him some time, as if to take all possible note of his aspect. The
man did not seem so much to enjoy it himself, as he did to do these
things in a kind of formal and matter-of-course way, as if he were
performing a set duty; as if he were a subordinate fiend, and were
doing the duty of a superior one, without any individual malice of his
own, though a general satisfaction in doing what would accrue to the
agglomeration of deadly mischief. He stole away, and the master was
left to himself.
By and by, by what impulse or cause it is impossible to say, he started
upon his feet in a sudden frenzy of rage and despair. It seemed as if a
consciousness of some strange, wild miserable fate that had befallen
him had come upon him all at once; how that he was a prisoner to a
devilish influence, to some wizard might, that bound him hand and foot
with spider's web. So he stamped; so he half shrieked, yet stopped
himself in the midst, so that his cry was stifled and smothered. Then
he snatched up the poisoned dagger and looked at it; the noose, and put
it about his neck,--evil instrument of death,--but laid it down again.
And then was a voice at the door: "Quietly, quietly you know, or they
will hear you." And at that voice he sank into sullen indifference
again.
