
It could be but a few years since he first called himself a man; but
they must have been thickly studded with events, turbulent with action,
spent amidst circumstances that called for resources of energy not
often so early developed; and thus his youth might have been kept in
abeyance until now, when in this simple rural scene he grew almost a
boy again. As for his station in life, his coarse gray suit and the
knapsack on his shoulders did not indicate a very high one; yet it was
such as a gentleman might wear of a morning, or on a pedestrian ramble,
and was worn in a way that made it seem of a better fashion than it
really was, as it enabled him to find a rare enjoyment, as we have
seen, in by-path, hedge-row, rustic stile, lark, and cuckoo, and even
the familiar grass and clover blossom. It was as if he had long been
shut in a sick-chamber or a prison; or, at least, within the iron cage
of busy life, that had given him but few glimpses of natural things
through its bars; or else this was another kind of nature than he had
heretofore known.
As he walked along (through a kind of dream, though he seemed so
sensibly observant of trifling things around him,) he failed to notice
that the path grew somewhat less distinctly marked, more infringed upon
by grass, more shut in by shrubbery; he had deviated into a side track,
and, in fact, a certain printed board nailed against a tree had escaped
his notice, warning off intruders with inhospitable threats of
prosecution. He began to suspect that he must have gone astray when the
path led over plashy ground with a still fainter trail of preceding
footsteps, and plunged into shrubbery, and seemed on the point of
deserting him altogether, after having beguiled him thus far. The spot
was an entanglement of boughs, and yet did not give one the impression
of wildness; for it was the stranger's idea that everything in this
long cultivated region had been touched and influenced by man's care,
every oak, every bush, every sod,--that man knew them all, and that
they knew him, and by that mutual knowledge had become far other than
they were in the first freedom of growth, such as may be found in an
American forest. Nay, the wildest denizens of this sylvan neighborhood
were removed in the same degree from their primeval character; for
hares sat on their hind legs to gaze at the approaching traveller, and
hardly thought it worth their while to leap away among some ferns, as
he drew near; two pheasants looked at him from a bough, a little inward
among the shrubbery; and, to complete the wonder, he became aware of
the antlers and brown muzzle of a deer protruding among the boughs, and
though immediately there ensued a great rush and rustling of the herd,
it seemed evidently to come from a certain lingering shyness, an
instinct that had lost its purpose and object, and only mimicked a
dread of man, whose neighborhood and familiarity had tamed the wild
deer almost into a domestic creature. Remembering his experience of
true woodland life, the traveller fancied that it might be possible to
want freer air, less often used for human breath, than was to be found
anywhere among these woods.
But then the sweet, calm sense of safety that was here: the certainty
that with the wild element that centuries ago had passed out of this
scene had gone all the perils of wild men and savage beasts, dwarfs,
witches, leaving nature, not effete, but only disarmed of those
rougher, deadlier characteristics, that cruel rawness, which make
primeval Nature the deadly enemy even of her own children. Here was
consolation, doubtless; so we sit down on the stone step of the last
stile that he had crossed, and listen to the footsteps of the
traveller, and the distant rustle among the shrubbery, as he goes
deeper and deeper into the seclusion, having by this time lost the
deceitful track. No matter if he go astray; even were it after
nightfall instead of noontime, a will-o'-the-wisp, or Puck himself,
would not lead him into worse harm than to delude him into some mossy
pool, the depths of which the truant schoolboys had known for ages.
Nevertheless, some little time after his disappearance, there was the
report of a shot that echoed sharp and loud, startling the pheasants
from their boughs, and sending the hares and deer a-scampering in good
earnest.
We next find our friend, from whom we parted on the footpath, in a
situation of which he then was but very imperfectly aware; for, indeed,
he had been in a state of unconsciousness, lasting until it was now
late towards the sunset of that same day. He was endeavoring to make
out where he was, and how he came thither, or what had happened; or
whether, indeed, anything had happened, unless to have fallen asleep,
and to be still enveloped in the fragments of some vivid and almost
tangible dream, the more confused because so vivid. His wits did not
come so readily about him as usual; there may have been a slight
delusion, which mingled itself with his sober perceptions, and by its
leaven of extravagance made the whole substance of the scene untrue.
Thus it happened that, as it were at the same instant, he fancied
himself years back in life, thousands of miles away, in a gloomy
cobwebbed room, looking out upon a graveyard, while yet, neither more
nor less distinctly, he was conscious of being in a small chamber,
panelled with oak, and furnished in an antique style. He was doubtful,
too, whether or no there was a grim feudal figure, in a shabby
dressing-gown and an old velvet cap, sitting in the dusk of the room,
smoking a pipe that diffused a scent of tobacco,--quaffing a deep-hued
liquor out of a tumbler,--looking upwards at a spider that hung above.
"Was there, too, a child sitting in a little chair at his footstool?" In
his earnestness to see this apparition more distinctly, he opened his
eyes wider and stirred, and ceased to see it at all.
But though that other dusty, squalid, cobwebbed scene quite vanished,
and along with it the two figures, old and young, grim and childish, of
whose portraits it had been the framework, still there were features in
the old, oaken-panelled chamber that seemed to belong rather to his
dream. The panels were ornamented, here and there, with antique
carving, representing over and over again an identical device, being a
bare arm, holding the torn-off head of some savage beast, which the
stranger could not know by species, any more than Agassiz himself could
have assigned its type or kindred; because it was that kind of natural
history of which heraldry alone keeps the menagerie. But it was just as
familiar to his recollection as that of the cat which he had fondled in
his childhood.
There was likewise a mantelpiece, heavily wrought of oak, quite black
with smoke and age, in the centre of which, more prominent than
elsewhere, was that same leopard's head that seemed to thrust itself
everywhere into sight, as if typifying some great mystery which human
nature would never be at rest till it had solved; and below, in a
cavernous hollow, there was a smouldering fire of coals; for the genial
day had suddenly grown chill, and a shower of rain spattered against
the small window-panes, almost at the same time with the struggling
sunshine. And over the mantelpiece, where the light of the declining
day came strongest from the window, there was a larger and more highly
relieved carving of this same device, and underneath it a legend, in
Old English letters, which, though his eyes could not precisely trace
it at that distance, he knew to be this:--
                      "Hold hard the Head."
Otherwise the aspect of the room bewildered him by not being known,
since these details were so familiar; a narrow precinct it was, with
one window full of old-fashioned, diamond-shaped panes of glass, a
small desk table, standing on clawed feet; two or three high-backed
chairs, on the top of each of which was carved that same crest of the
fabulous brute's head, which the carver's fancy seemed to have clutched
so strongly that he could not let it go; in another part of the room a
very old engraving, rude and strong, representing some ruffled
personage, which the stranger only tried to make out with a sort of
idle curiosity, because it was strange he should dream so distinctly.
Very soon it became intolerably irritating that these two dreams, both
purposeless, should have mingled and entangled themselves in his mind.
He made a nervous and petulant motion, intending to rouse himself
fully; and immediately a sharp pang of physical pain took him by
surprise, and made him groan aloud.
Immediately there was an almost noiseless step on the floor; and a
figure emerged from a deep niche, that looked as if it might once have
been an oratory, in ancient times; and the figure, too, might have been
supposed to possess the devout and sanctified character of such as
knelt in the oratories of ancient times. It was an elderly man, tall,
thin, and pale, and wearing a long, dark tunic, and in a peculiar
fashion, which--like almost everything else about him--the stranger
seemed to have a confused remembrance of; this venerable person had a
benign and pitiful aspect, and approached the bedside with such good
will and evident desire to do the sufferer good, that the latter felt
soothed, at least, by his very presence. He lay, a moment, gazing up at
the old man's face, without being able to exert himself to say a word,
but sensible, as it were, of a mild, soft influence from him, cooling
the fever which seemed to burn in his veins.
"Do you suffer much pain?" asked the old man, gently.
"None at all," said the stranger; but again a slight motion caused him
to feel a burning twinge in his shoulder. "Yes; there was a throb of
strange anguish. Why should I feel pain? Where am I?"
