
"In safety, and with those who desire to be your friends," said the old
man. "You have met with an accident; but do not inquire about it now.
Quiet is what you need."
Still the traveller gazed at him; and the old man's figure seemed to
enter into his dream, or delirium, whichever it might be, as if his
peaceful presence were but a shadow, so quaint was his address, so
unlike real life, in that dark robe, with a velvet skullcap on his
head, beneath which his hair made a silvery border; and looking more
closely, the stranger saw embroidered on the breast of the tunic that
same device, the arm and the leopard's head, which was visible in the
carving of the room. Yes; this must still be a dream, which, under the
unknown laws which govern such psychical states, had brought out thus
vividly figures, devices, words, forgotten since his boyish days.
Though of an imaginative tendency, the stranger was nevertheless
strongly tenacious of the actual, and had a natural horror at the idea
of being seriously at odds, in beliefs, perceptions, conclusions, with
the real world about him; so that a tremor ran through him, as if he
felt the substance of the world shimmering before his eyes like a mere
vaporous consistency.
"Are you real?" said he to the antique presence; "or a spirit? or a
fantasy?"
The old man laid his thin, cool palm on the stranger's burning
forehead, and smiled benignantly, keeping it there an instant.
"If flesh and blood are real, I am so," said he; "a spirit, too, I may
claim to be, made thin by fantasy. Again, do not perplex yourself with
such things. To-morrow you may find denser substance in me. Drink this
composing draught, and close your eyes to those things that disturb
you."
"Your features, too, and your voice," said the stranger, in a resigned
tone, as if he were giving up a riddle, the solution of which he could
not find, "have an image and echo somewhere in my memory. It is all an
entanglement. I will drink, and shut my eyes."
He drank from a little old-fashioned silver cup, which his venerable
guardian presented to his lips; but in so doing he was still perplexed
and tremulously disturbed with seeing that same weary old device, the
leopard's head, engraved on the side; and shut his eyes to escape it,
for it irritated a certain portion of his brain with vague, fanciful,
elusive ideas. So he sighed and spoke no more. The medicine, whatever
it might be, had the merit, rare in doctor's stuff, of being pleasant
to take, assuasive of thirst, and imbued with a hardly perceptible
fragrance, that was so ethereal that it also seemed to enter into his
dream and modify it. He kept his eyes closed, and fell into a misty
state, in which he wondered whether this could be the panacea or
medicament which old Doctor Grimshawe used to distil from cobwebs, and
of which the fragrance seemed to breathe through all the waste of years
since then. He wondered, too, who was this benign, saint-like old man,
and where, in what former state of being, he could have known him; to
have him thus, as no strange thing, and yet so strange, be attending at
his bedside, with all this ancient garniture. But it was best to
dismiss all things, he being so weak; to resign himself; all this had
happened before, and had passed away, prosperously or unprosperously;
it would pass away in this case, likewise; and in the morning whatever
might be delusive would have disappeared.
CHAPTER XIII.
