
"You must deem me very poor-spirited," said he, "not to bear this
trifling hurt with a firmer mind. But perhaps it is not entirely that I
am so weak, but I feel you to be so benign."
"Be weak, and be the stronger for it," said the old man, with a grave
smile. "It is not in the pride of our strength that we are best or
wisest. To be made anew, we even must be again a little child, and
consent to be enwrapt quietly in the arms of Providence, as a child in
its mother's arms."
"I never knew a mother's care," replied the traveller, in a low,
regretful tone, being weak to the incoming of all soft feelings, in his
present state. "Since my boyhood, I have lived among men,--a life of
struggle and hard rivalry. It is good to find myself here in the long
past, and in a sheltered harbor."
And here he smiled, by way of showing to this old palmer that he saw
through the slight infirmity of mind that impelled him to say such
things as the above; that he was not its dupe, though he had not
strength, just now, to resist its impulse. After this he dozed off
softly, and felt through all his sleep some twinges of his wound,
bringing him back, as it were, to the conscious surface of the great
deep of slumber, into which he might otherwise have sunk. At all such
brief intervals, half unclosing his eyes, (like a child, when the
mother sits by its bed and he fears that she will steal away if he
falls quite asleep, and leave him in the dark solitude,) he still
beheld the white-bearded, kindly old man, of saintly aspect, sitting
near him, and turning over the pages of his folio volume so softly that
not the faintest rustle did it make; the picture at length got so fully
into his idea, that he seemed to see it even through his closed
eyelids. After a while, however, the slumberous tendency left him more
entirely, and, without having been consciously awake, he found himself
contemplating the old man, with wide-open eyes. The venerable personage
seemed soon to feel his gaze, and, ceasing to look at the folio, he
turned his eyes with quiet inquiry to meet those of the
stranger. [Endnote: 5.]
"What great volume is that?" asked the latter. [Endnote: 6.]
"It is a book of English chronicles," said the old man, "mostly
relating to the part of the island where you now are, and to times
previous to the Stuarts."
"Ah! it is to you, a contemporary, what reading the newspaper is to
other men," said the stranger; then, with a smile of self-reproach, "I
shall conquer this idle mood. I'm not so imbecile as you must think me.
But there is something that strangely haunts me,--where, in what state
of being, can I have seen your face before. There is nothing in it I
distinctly remember; but some impression, some characteristic, some
look, with which I have been long ago familiar haunts me and brings
back all old scenes. Do you know me?"
The old man smiled. "I knew, long ago, a bright and impressible boy,"
said he.
"And his name?" said the stranger.
"It was Edward Redclyffe," said the old man.
"Ah, I see who you are," said the traveller, not too earnestly, but
with a soft, gratified feeling, as the riddle thus far solved itself.
"You are my old kindly instructor. You are Colcord! That is it. I
remember you disappeared. You shall tell me, when I am quite myself,
what was that mystery,--and whether it is your real self, or only a
part of my dream, and going to vanish when I quite awake. Now I shall
sleep and dream more of it."
One more waking interval he had that day, and again essayed to enter
into conversation with the old man, who had thus strangely again become
connected with his life, after having so long vanished from his path.
