
CHAPTER XIV.
The next day he called for his clothes, and, with the assistance of the
pensioner, managed to be dressed, and awaited the arrival of the
surgeon, sitting in a great easy-chair, with not much except his pale,
thin cheeks, dark, thoughtful eyes, and his arm in a sling, to show the
pain and danger through which he had passed. Soon after the departure
of the professional gentleman, a step somewhat louder than ordinary was
heard on the staircase, and in the corridor leading to the sick-
chamber; the step (as Redclyffe's perceptions, nicely attempered by his
weakness, assured him) of a man in perfect and robust health, and of
station and authority. A moment afterwards, a gentleman of middle age,
or a little beyond, appeared in the doorway, in a dress that seemed
clerical, yet not very decidedly so; he had a frank, kindly, yet
authoritative bearing, and a face that might almost be said to beam
with geniality, when, as now, the benevolence of his nature was aroused
and ready to express itself.
"My friend," said he, "Doctor Portingale tells me you are much better;
and I am most happy to hear it."
There was something brusque and unceremonious in his manner, that a
little jarred against Redclyffe's sensitiveness, which had become
morbid in sympathy with his weakness. He felt that the new-comer had
not probably the right idea as to his own position in life; he was
addressing him most kindly, indeed, but as an inferior.
"I am much better, sir," he replied, gravely, and with reserve; "so
nearly well, that I shall very soon be able to bid farewell to my kind
nurse here, and to this ancient establishment, to which I owe so much."
The visitor seemed struck by Mr. Redclyffe's tone, and finely modulated
voice, and glanced at his face, and then over his dress and figure, as
if to gather from them some reliable data as to his station.
"I am the Warden of this Hospital," said he, with not less benignity
than heretofore, and greater courtesy; "and, in that capacity, must
consider you under my care,--as my guest, in fact,--although, owing to
my casual absence, one of the brethren of the house has been the active
instrument in attending you. I am most happy to find you so far
recovered. Do you feel yourself in a condition to give any account of
the accident which has befallen you?"
"It will be a very unsatisfactory one, at best," said Redclyffe, trying
to discover some definite point in his misty reminiscences. "I am a
stranger to this country, and was on a pedestrian tour with the purpose
of making myself acquainted with the aspects of English scenery and
life. I had turned into a footpath, being told that it would lead me
within view of an old Hall, which, from certain early associations, I
was very desirous of seeing. I think I went astray; at all events, the
path became indistinct; and, so far as I can recollect, I had just
turned to retrace my steps,--in fact, that is the last thing in my
memory."
"You had almost fallen a sacrifice," said the Warden, "to the old
preference which our English gentry have inherited from their Norman
ancestry, of game to man. You had come unintentionally as an intruder
into a rich preserve much haunted by poachers, and exposed yourself to
the deadly mark of a spring-gun, which had not the wit to distinguish
between a harmless traveller and a poacher. At least, such is our
conclusion; for our old friend here, (who luckily for you is a great
rambler in the woods,) when the report drew him to the spot, found you
insensible, and the gun discharged."
"A gun has so little discretion," said Redclyffe, smiling, "that it
seems a pity to trust entirely to its judgment, in a matter of life and
death. But, to confess the truth, I had come this morning to the
suspicion that there was a direct human agency in the matter; for I
find missing a little pocket-book which I carried."
