
"Then," said the Warden, "that certainly gives a new aspect to the
affair. Was it of value?"
"Of none whatever," said Redclyffe, "merely containing pencil
memoranda, and notes of a traveller's little expenses. I had papers
about me of far more value, and a moderate sum of money, a letter of
credit, which have escaped. I do not, however, feel inclined, on such
grounds, to transfer the guilt decidedly from the spring-gun to any
more responsible criminal; for it is very possible that the pocket-
book, being carelessly carried, might have been lost on the way. I had
not used it since the preceding day."
"Much more probable, indeed," said the Warden. "The discharged gun is
strong evidence against itself. Mr. Colcord," continued he, raising his
voice, "how long was the interval between the discharge of the gun and
your arrival on the spot."
"Five minutes, or less," said the old man, "for I was not far off, and
made what haste I could, it being borne in on my spirit that mischief
was abroad."
"Did you hear two reports?" asked the Warden.
"Only one," replied Colcord.
"It is a plain case against the spring-gun," said the Warden; "and, as
you tell me you are a stranger, I trust you will not suppose that our
peaceful English woods and parks are the haunt of banditti. We must try
to give you a better idea of us. May I ask, are you an American, and
recently come among us?"
"I believe a letter of credit is considered as decisive as most modes
of introduction," said Redclyffe, feeling that the good Warden was
desirous of knowing with some precision who and what he was, and that,
in the circumstances, he had a right to such knowledge. "Here is mine,
on a respectable house in London."
The Warden took it, and glanced it over with a slight apologetic bow;
it was a credit for a handsome amount in favor of the Honorable Edward
Redclyffe, a title that did not fail to impress the Englishman rather
favorably towards his new acquaintance, although he happened to know
something of their abundance, even so early in the republic, among the
men branded sons of equality. But, at all events, it showed no ordinary
ability and energy for so young a man to have held such position as
this title denoted in the fiercely contested political struggles of the
new democracy.
"Do you know, Mr. Redclyffe, that this name is familiar to us,
hereabouts?" asked he, with a kindly bow and recognition,--"that it is
in fact the principal name in this neighborhood,--that a family of your
name still possesses Braithwaite Hall, and that this very Hospital,
where you have happily found shelter, was founded by former
representatives of your name? Perhaps you count yourself among their
kindred."
"My countrymen are apt to advance claims to kinship with distinguished
English families on such slight grounds as to make it ridiculous," said
Redclyffe, coloring. "I should not choose to follow so absurd an
example."
"Well, well, perhaps not," said the Warden, laughing frankly. "I have
been amongst your republicans myself, a long while ago, and saw that
your countrymen have no adequate idea of the sacredness of pedigrees,
and heraldic distinctions, and would change their own names at
pleasure, and vaunt kindred with an English duke on the strength of the
assumed one. But I am happy to meet an American gentleman who looks
upon this matter as Englishmen necessarily must. I met with great
kindness in your country, Mr. Redclyffe, and shall be truly happy if
you will allow me an opportunity of returning some small part of the
obligation. You are now in a condition for removal to my own quarters,
across the quadrangle. I will give orders to prepare an apartment, and
you must transfer yourself there by dinner-time."
