
With this hospitable proposal, so decisively expressed, the Warden took
his leave; and Edward Redclyffe had hardly yet recovered sufficient
independent force to reject an invitation so put, even were he
inclined; but, in truth, the proposal suited well with his wishes, such
as they were, and was, moreover, backed, it is singular to say, by
another of those dreamlike recognitions which had so perplexed him ever
since he found himself in the Hospital. In some previous state of
being, the Warden and he had talked together before.
"What is the Warden's name?" he inquired of the old pensioner.
"Hammond," said the old man; "he is a kinsman of the Redclyffe family
himself, a man of fortune, and spends more than the income of his
wardenship in beautifying and keeping up the glory of the
establishment. He takes great pride in it."
"And he has been in America," said Redclyffe. "How strange! I knew him
there. Never was anything so singular as the discovery of old
acquaintances where I had reason to suppose myself unknowing and
unknown. Unless dear Doctor Grim, or dear little Elsie, were to start
up and greet me, I know not what may chance next."
Redclyffe took up his quarters in the Warden's house the next day, and
was installed in an apartment that made a picture, such as he had not
before seen, of English household comfort. He was thus established
under the good Warden's roof, and, being very attractive of most
people's sympathies, soon began to grow greatly in favor with that
kindly personage.
When Edward Redclyffe removed from the old pensioner's narrow quarters
to the far ampler accommodations of the Warden's house, the latter
gentleman was taking his morning exercise on horseback. A servant,
however, in a grave livery, ushered him to an apartment, where the new
guest was surprised to see some luggage which two or three days before
Edward had ordered from London, on finding that his stay in this part
of the country was likely to be much longer than he had originally
contemplated. The sight of these things--the sense which they conveyed
that he was an expected and welcome guest--tended to raise the spirits
of the solitary wanderer, and made him.... [Endnote: 1.]
The Warden's abode was an original part of the ancient establishment,
being an entire side of the quadrangle which the whole edifice
surrounded; and for the establishment of a bachelor (which was his new
friend's condition), it seemed to Edward Redclyffe abundantly spacious
and enviably comfortable. His own chamber had a grave, rich depth, as
it were, of serene and time-long garniture, for purposes of repose,
convenience, daily and nightly comfort, that it was soothing even to
look at. Long accustomed, as Redclyffe had been, to the hardy and rude
accommodations, if so they were to be called, of log huts and hasty,
mud-built houses in the Western States of America, life, its daily
habits, its passing accommodations, seemed to assume an importance,
under these aspects, which it had not worn before; those deep downy
beds, those antique chairs, the heavy carpet, the tester and curtains,
the stateliness of the old room,--they had a charm as compared with the
thin preparation of a forester's bedchamber, such as Redclyffe had
chiefly known them, in the ruder parts of the country, that really
seemed to give a more substantial value to life; so much pains had been
taken with its modes and appliances, that it looked more solid than
before. Nevertheless, there was something ghostly in that stately
curtained bed, with the deep gloom within its drapery, so ancient as it
was; and suggestive of slumberers there who had long since slumbered
elsewhere.
The old servant, whose grave, circumspect courtesy was a matter quite
beyond Redclyffe's experience, soon knocked at the chamber door, and
suggested that the guest might desire to await the Warden's arrival in
the library, which was the customary sitting-room. Redclyffe assenting,
he was ushered into a spacious apartment, lighted by various Gothic
windows, surrounded with old oaken cases, in which were ranged volumes,
most or many of which seemed to be coeval with the foundation of the
hospital; and opening one of them, Redclyffe saw for the first time in
his life [Endnote: 2] a genuine book-worm, that ancient form of
creature living upon literature; it had gnawed a circular hole,
penetrating through perhaps a score of pages of the seldom opened
volume, and was still at his musty feast. There was a fragrance of old
learning in this ancient library; a soothing influence, as the American
felt, of time-honored ideas, where the strife, novelties, uneasy
agitating conflict, attrition of unsettled theories, fresh-springing
thought, did not attain a foothold; a good place to spend a life which
should not be agitated with the disturbing element; so quiet, so
peaceful; how slowly, with how little wear, would the years pass here!
How unlike what he had hitherto known, and was destined to know,--the
quick, violent struggle of his mother country, which had traced lines
in his young brow already. How much would be saved by taking his former
existence, not as dealing with things yet malleable, but with fossils,
things that had had their life, and now were unchangeable, and revered,
here!
At one end of this large room there was a bowed window, the space near
which was curtained off from the rest of the library, and, the window
being filled with painted glass (most of which seemed old, though there
were insertions evidently of modern and much inferior handiwork), there
was a rich gloom of light, or you might call it a rich glow, according
to your mood of mind. Redclyffe soon perceived that this curtained
recess was the especial study of his friend, the Warden, and as such
was provided with all that modern times had contrived for making an
enjoyment out of the perusal of old books; a study table, with every
convenience of multifarious devices, a great inkstand, pens; a
luxurious study chair, where thought [Endnote: 3] upon. To say the
truth, there was not, in this retired and thoughtful nook, anything
that indicated to Redclyffe that the Warden had been recently engaged
in consultation of learned authorities,--or in abstract labor, whether
moral, metaphysical or historic; there was a volume of translations of
Mother Goose's Melodies into Greek and Latin, printed for private
circulation, and with the Warden's name on the title-page; a London
newspaper of the preceding day; Lillebullero, Chevy Chase, and the old
political ballads; and, what a little amused Redclyffe, the three
volumes of a novel from a circulating library; so that Redclyffe came
to the conclusion that the good Warden, like many educated men, whose
early scholastic propensities are backed up by the best of
opportunities, and all desirable facilities and surroundings, still
contented himself with gathering a flower or two, instead of attempting
the hard toil requisite to raise a crop.
It must not be omitted, that there was a fragrance in the room, which,
unlike as the scene was, brought back, through so many years, to
Redclyffe's mind a most vivid remembrance of poor old Doctor Grim's
squalid chamber, with his wild, bearded presence in the midst of it,
puffing his everlasting cloud; for here was the same smell of tobacco,
and on the mantel-piece of a chimney lay a German pipe, and an old
silver tobacco-box into which was wrought the leopard's head and the
inscription in black letter. The Warden had evidently availed himself
of one of the chief bachelor sources of comfort. Redclyffe, whose
destiny had hitherto, and up to a very recent period, been to pass a
feverishly active life, was greatly impressed by all these tokens of
learned ease,--a degree of self-indulgence combined with duties enough
to quiet an otherwise uneasy conscience,--by the consideration that
this pensioner acted a good part in a world where no one is entitled to
be an unprofitable laborer. He thought within himself, that his
prospects in his own galvanized country, that seemed to him, a few
years since, to offer such a career for an adventurous young man,
conscious of motive power, had nothing so enticing as such a nook as
this,--a quiet recess of unchangeable old time, around which the
turbulent tide now eddied and rushed, but could not disturb it. Here,
to be sure, hope, love, ambition, came not, progress came not; but here
was what, just now, the early wearied American could appreciate better
than aught else,--here was rest.
The fantasy took Edward to imitate the useful labors of the learned
Warden, and to make trial whether his own classical condition--the
results of Doctor Grim's tuition, and subsequently that of an American
College--had utterly deserted him, by attempting a translation of a few
verses of Yankee Doodle; and he was making hopeful progress when the
Warden came in fresh and rosy from a morning's ride in a keen east
wind. He shook hands heartily with his guest, and, though by no means
frigid at their former interview, seemed to have developed at once into
a kindlier man, now that he had suffered the stranger to cross his
threshold, and had thus made himself responsible for his comfort.
"I shall take it greatly amiss," said he, "if you do not pick up fast
under my roof, and gather a little English ruddiness, moreover, in the
walks and rides that I mean to take you. Your countrymen, as I saw
them, are a sallow set; but I think you must have English blood enough
in your veins to eke out a ruddy tint, with the help of good English
beef and ale, and daily draughts of wholesome light and air."
