
"My cheeks would not have been so very pale," said Edward, laughing,
"if an English shot had not deprived me of a good deal of my American
blood."
"Only follow my guidance," said the Warden, "and I assure you you shall
have back whatever blood we have deprived you of, together with an
addition. It is now luncheon-time, and we will begin the process of
replenishing your veins."
So they went into a refectory, where were spread upon the board what
might have seemed a goodly dinner to most Americans; though for this
Englishman it was but a by-incident, a slight refreshment, to enable
him to pass the midway stage of life. It is an excellent thing to see
the faith of a hearty Englishman in his own stomach, and how well that
kindly organ repays his trust; with what devout assimilation he takes
to himself his kindred beef, loving it, believing in it, making a good
use of it, and without any qualms of conscience or prescience as to the
result. They surely eat twice as much as we; and probably because of
their undoubted faith it never does them any harm. Dyspepsia is merely
a superstition with us. If we could cease to believe in its existence,
it would exist no more. Redclyffe, eating little himself, his wound
compelling him to be cautious as to his diet, was secretly delighted to
see what sweets the Warden found in a cold round of beef, in a pigeon
pie, and a cut or two of Yorkshire ham; not that he was ravenous, but
that his stomach was so healthy.
"You eat little, my friend," said the Warden, pouring out a glass of
sherry for Redclyffe, and another for himself. "But you are right, in
such a predicament as yours. Spare your stomach while you are weakly,
and it will help you when you are strong This, now, is the most
enjoyable meal of the day with me. You will not see me play such a
knife and fork at dinner; though there too, especially if I have ridden
out in the afternoon, I do pretty well. But, come now, if (like most of
your countrymen, as I have heard) you are a lover of the weed, I can
offer you some as delicate Latakia as you are likely to find in
England."
"I lack that claim upon your kindness, I am sorry to say," replied
Redclyffe. "I am not a good smoker, though I have occasionally taken a
cigar at need."
"Well, when you find yourself growing old, and especially if you chance
to be a bachelor, I advise you to cultivate the habit," said the
Warden. "A wife is the only real obstacle or objection to a pipe; they
can seldom be thoroughly reconciled, and therefore it is well for a man
to consider, beforehand, which of the two he can best dispense with. I
know not how it might have been once, had the conflicting claim of
these two rivals ever been fairly presented to me; but I now should be
at no loss to choose the pipe."
They returned to the study; and while the Warden took his pipe,
Redclyffe, considering that, as the guest of this hospitable
Englishman, he had no right to continue a stranger, thought it fit to
make known to him who he was, and his condition, plans, and purposes.
He represented himself as having been liberally educated, bred to the
law, but (to his misfortune) having turned aside from that profession
to engage in politics. In this pursuit, indeed, his success wore a
flattering outside; for he had become distinguished, and, though so
young, a leader, locally at least, in the party which he had adopted.
He had been, for a biennial term, a member of Congress, after winning
some distinction in the legislature of his native State; but some one
of those fitful changes to which American politics are peculiarly
liable had thrown him out, in his candidacy for his second term; and
the virulence of party animosity, the abusiveness of the press, had
acted so much upon a disposition naturally somewhat too sensitive for
the career which he had undertaken, that he had resolved, being now
freed from legislative cares, to seize the opportunity for a visit to
England, whither he was drawn by feelings which every educated and
impressible American feels, in a degree scarcely conceivable by the
English themselves. And being here (but he had already too much
experience of English self-sufficiency to confess so much) he began to
feel the deep yearning which a sensitive American--his mind full of
English thoughts, his imagination of English poetry, his heart of
English character and sentiment--cannot fail to be influenced by,--the
yearning of the blood within his veins for that from which it has been
estranged; the half-fanciful regret that he should ever have been
separated from these woods, these fields, these natural features of
scenery, to which his nature was moulded, from the men who are still so
like himself, from these habits of life and thought which (though he
may not have known them for two centuries) he still perceives to have
remained in some mysterious way latent in the depths of his character,
and soon to be reassumed, not as a foreigner would do it, but like
habits native to him, and only suspended for a season.
This had been Redclyffe's state of feeling ever since he landed in
England, and every day seemed to make him more at home; so that it
seemed as if he were gradually awakening to a former reality.
CHAPTER XV.
