
The circumstances struck Redclyffe with a pleasant wonder; for, indeed,
the old statue held the closest possible imitation, in marble, of that
strange old glitter of gold which he himself had so often played with
in the Doctor's study; [Endnote: 2] so identical, that he could have
fancied that he saw the very thing, changed from metal into stone, even
with its bruises and other casual marks in it. As he looked at the old
statue, his imagination played with it, and his naturally great
impressibility half made him imagine that the old face looked at him
with a keen, subtile, wary glance, as if acknowledging that it held
some secret, but at the same time defying him to find it out. And then
again came that visionary feeling that had so often swept over him
since he had been an inmate of the Hospital.
All over the interior part of the building was carved in stone the
leopard's head, with wearisome iteration; as if the founder were
anxious to imprint his device so numerously, lest--when he produced
this edifice as his remuneration to Eternal Justice for many sins--the
Omniscient Eye should fail to be reminded that Sir Edward Redclyffe had
done it. But, at all events, it seemed to Redclyffe that the ancient
knight had purposed a good thing, and in a measurable degree had
effected it; for here stood the venerable edifice securely founded,
bearing the moss of four hundred years upon it; and though wars, and
change of dynasties, and religious change, had swept around it, with
seemingly destructive potency, yet here had the lodging, the food, the
monastic privileges of the brethren been held secure, and were
unchanged by all the altering mariners of the age. The old fellow,
somehow or other, seemed to have struck upon an everlasting rock, and
founded his pompous charity there.
They entered an arched door on the left of the quadrangle, and found
themselves hi a dark old hall with oaken beams; to say the truth, it
was a barn-like sort of enclosure, and was now used as a sort of
rubbish-place for the Hospital, where they stored away old furniture,
and where carpenter's work might be done. And yet, as the Warden
assured Redclyffe, it was once a hall of state, hung with tapestry,
carpeted, for aught he knew, with cloth of gold, and set with rich
furniture, and a groaning board in the midst. Here, the hereditary
patron of the Hospital had once entertained King James the First, who
made a Latin speech on the occasion, a copy of which was still
preserved in the archives. On the rafters of this old hall there were
cobwebs in such abundance that Redclyffe could not but reflect on the
joy which old Doctor Grimshawe would have had in seeing them, and the
health to the human race which he would have hoped to collect and
distil from them.
From this great, antique room they crossed the quadrangle and entered
the kitchen of the establishment. A hospitable fire was burning there,
and there seemed to be a great variety of messes cooking; and the
Warden explained to Redclyffe that there was no general table in the
Hospital; but the brethren, at their own will and pleasure, either
formed themselves into companies or messes, of any convenient size, or
enjoyed a solitary meal by themselves, each in their own apartments.
There was a goodly choice of simple, but good and enjoyable food, and a
sufficient supply of potent ale, brewed in the vats of the Hospital,
which, among its other praiseworthy characteristics, was famous for
this; having at some epoch presumed to vie with the famous ale of
Trinity, in Cambridge, and the Archdeacon of Oxford,--these having come
down to the hospital from a private receipt of Sir Edward's butler,
which was now lost in the Redclyffe family; nor would the ungrateful
Hospital give up its secret even out of loyalty to its founder.
"I would use my influence with the brewer," said the Warden, on
communicating this little fact to Redclyffe; "but the present man--now
owner of the estate--is not worthy to have good ale brewed in his
house; having himself no taste for anything but Italian wines, wretched
fellow that he is! He might make himself an Englishman if he would take
heartily to our ale; and with that end in view, I should be glad to
give it him."
The kitchen fire blazed warmly, as we have said, and roast and stewed
and boiled were in process of cooking, producing a pleasant fume, while
great heaps of wheaten loaves were smoking hot from the ovens, and the
master cook and his subordinates were in fume and hiss, like beings
that were of a fiery element, and, though irritable and scorching, yet
were happier here than they could have been in any other situation. The
Warden seemed to have an especial interest and delight in this
department of the Hospital, and spoke apart to the head cook on the
subject (as Redclyffe surmised from what he overheard) of some especial
delicacy for his own table that day.
"This kitchen is a genial place," said he to Redclyffe, as they
retired. "In the evening, after the cooks have done their work, the
brethren have liberty to use it as a sort of common room, and to sit
here over their ale till a reasonable bedtime. It would interest you
much to make one at such a party; for they have had a varied experience
in life, each one for himself, and it would be strange to hear the
varied roads by which they have come hither."
"Yes," replied Redclyffe, "and, I presume, not one of them ever dreamed
of coming hither when he started in life. The only one with whom I am
acquainted could hardly have expected it, at all events."
"He is a remarkable man, more so than you may have had an opportunity
of knowing," said the Warden. "I know not his history, for he is not
communicative on that subject, and it was only necessary for him to
make out his proofs of claim to the charity to the satisfaction of the
Curators. But it has often struck me that there must have been strange
and striking events in his life,--though how it could have been without
his attracting attention and being known, I cannot say. I have myself
often received good counsel from him in the conduct of the Hospital,
and the present owner of the Hall seems to have taken him for his
counsellor and confidant, being himself strange to English affairs and
life."
"I should like to call on him, as a matter of course rather than
courtesy," observed Redclyffe, "and thank him for his great kindness."
They accordingly ascended the dark oaken staircase with its black
balustrade, and approached the old man's chamber, the door of which
they found open, and in the blurred looking-glass which hung deep
within the room Redclyffe was surprised to perceive the young face of a
woman, who seemed to be arranging her head-gear, as women are always
doing. It was but a moment, and then it vanished like a vision.
"I was not aware," he said, turning to the Warden, "that there was a
feminine side to this establishment."
