
"I have seen it myself," quoth the Doctor, "and know this to be true."
"Doctor Grim, now you are laughing at us," said Ned, trying to look
grave. But Elsie hid her face on the Doctor's knee; there being
something that affected the vivid little girl with peculiar horror in
the idea of this red footstep always glistening on the doorstep, and
wetting, as she fancied, every innocent foot of child or grown person
that had since passed over it. [Endnote: 3.]
"It is true!" reiterated the grim Doctor; "for, man and boy, I have
seen it a thousand times."
He continued the family history, or tradition, or fantastic legend,
whichever it might be; telling his young auditors that the Puritan, the
renegade son of the family, was afterwards, by the contrivances of his
brethren, sent to Virginia and sold as a bond slave; and how he had
vanished from that quarter and come to New England, where he was
supposed to have left children. And by and by two elder brothers died,
and this missing brother became the heir to the old estate and to a
title. Then the family tried to track his bloody footstep, and sought
it far and near, through green country paths, and old streets of
London; but in vain. Then they sent messengers to see whether any
traces of one stepping in blood could be found on the forest leaves of
America; but still in vain. The idea nevertheless prevailed that he
would come back, and it was said they kept a bedchamber ready for him
yet in the old house. But much as they pretended to regret the loss of
him and his children, it would make them curse their stars were a
descendant of his to return now. For the child of a younger son was in
possession of the old estate, and was doing as much evil as his
forefathers did; and if the true heir were to appear on the threshold,
he would (if he might but do it secretly) stain the whole doorstep as
red as the Bloody Footstep had stained one little portion of it.
"Do you think he will ever come back?" asked little Ned.
"Stranger things have happened, my little man!" said Doctor Grimshawe,
"than that the posterity of this man should come back and turn these
usurpers out of his rightful inheritance. And sometimes, as I sit here
smoking my pipe and drinking my glass, and looking up at the cunning
plot that the spider is weaving yonder above my head, and thinking of
this fine old family and some little matters that have been between
them and me, I fancy that it may be so! We shall see! Stranger things
have happened."
And Doctor Grimshawe drank off his tumbler, winking at little Ned in a
strange way, that seemed to be a kind of playfulness, but which did not
affect the children pleasantly; insomuch that little Elsie put both her
hands on Doctor Grim's knees, and begged him not to do so any
more. [Endnote: 4.]
CHAPTER IV.
[Endnote: 1]
