
"You are particularly bitter against this poor man," said Redclyffe,
laughing at the Warden's vehemence. "His appearance--and yet he is a
handsome man--is certainly not prepossessing; but unless it be
countersigned by something in his actual life, I should hardly think it
worth while to condemn him utterly."
"Well, well; you can forgive a little English prejudice," said the
Warden, a little ashamed. "But, in good earnest, the man has few or no
good traits, takes no interest in the country, dislikes our sky, our
earth, our people, is close and inhospitable, a hard landlord, and
whatever may be his good qualities, they are not such as flourish in
this soil and climate, or can be appreciated here." [Endnote: 1.]
"Has he children?" asked Redclyffe.
"They say so,--a family by an Italian wife, whom some, on the other
hand, pronounce to be no wife at all. His son is at a Catholic college
in France; his daughter in a convent there."
In talk like this they were drawing near the little rustic village of
Braithwaite, and saw, above a cloud of foliage, the small, low,
battlemented tower, the gray stones of which had probably been laid a
little after the Norman conquest. Approaching nearer, they passed a
thatched cottage or two, very plain and simple edifices, though
interesting to Redclyffe from their antique aspect, which denoted that
they were probably older than the settlement of his own country, and
might very likely have nursed children who had gone, more than two
centuries ago, to found the commonwealth of which he was a citizen. If
you considered them in one way, prosaically, they were ugly enough; but
then there were the old latticed windows, and there the thatch, which
was verdant with leek, and strange weeds, possessing a whole botanical
growth. And birds flew in and out, as if they had their homes there.
Then came a row of similar cottages, all joined on together, and each
with a little garden before it divided from its neighbors by a hedge,
now in full verdure. Redclyffe was glad to see some symptoms of natural
love of beauty here, for there were plants of box, cut into queer
shapes of birds, peacocks, etc., as if year after year had been spent
in bringing these vegetable sculptures to perfection. In one of the
gardens, moreover, the ingenious inhabitant had spent his leisure in
building grotto-work, of which the English are rather ludicrously fond,
on their little bits of lawn, and in building a miniature castle of
oyster-shells, where were seen turrets, ramparts, a frowning arched
gateway, and miniature cannon looking from the embrasures. A pleasanter
and better adornment were the homely household flowers, and a pleasant
sound, too, was the hum of bees, who had their home in several
beehives, and were making their honey among the flowers of the garden,
or come from afar, buzzing dreamily through the air, laden with honey
that they had found elsewhere. Fruit trees stood erect, or, in some
instances, were flattened out against the walls of cottages, looking
somewhat like hawks nailed _in terrorem_ against a barn door. The
male members of this little community were probably afield, with the
exception of one or two half-torpid great-grandsires, who [were] moving
rheumatically about the gardens, and some children not yet in breeches,
who stared with stolid eyes at the passers-by; but the good dames were
busy within doors, where Redclyffe had glimpses of their interior with
its pavement of stone flags. Altogether it seemed a comfortable
settlement enough.
"Do you see that child yonder," observed the Warden, "creeping away
from the door, and displaying a vista of his petticoats as he does so?
That sturdy boy is the lineal heir of one of the oldest families in
this part of England,--though now decayed and fallen, as you may judge.
So, you see, with all our contrivances to keep up an aristocracy, there
still is change forever going on."
"There is something not agreeable, and something otherwise, in the
thought," replied Redclyffe. "What is the name of the old family, whose
representative is in such a case?"
"Moseby," said the Warden. "Their family residence stood within three
miles of Braithwaite Hall, but was taken down in the last century, and
its place supplied by a grand show-place, built by a Birmingham
manufacturer, who also originated here."
They kept onward from this outskirt of the village, and soon, passing
over a little rising ground, and descending now into a hollow came to
the new portion of it, clustered around its gray Norman church, one
side of the tower of which was covered with ivy, that was carefully
kept, the Warden said, from climbing to the battlements, on account of
some old prophecy that foretold that the tower would fall, if ever the
ivy mantled over its top. Certainly, however, there seemed little
likelihood that the square, low mass would fall, unless by external
violence, in less than as many ages as it had already stood.
Redclyffe looked at the old tower and little adjoining edifice with an
interest that attached itself to every separate, moss-grown stone; but
the Warden, like most Englishmen, was at once amazed and wearied with
the American's enthusiasm for this spot, which to him was uninteresting
for the very reason that made it most interesting to Redclyffe, because
it had stood there such a weary while. It was too common an object to
excite in his mind, as it did in Redclyffe's, visions of the long ago
time when it was founded, when mass was first said there, and the
glimmer of torches at the altar was seen through the vista of that
broad-browed porch; and of all the procession of villagers that had
since gone in and come out during nine hundred years, in their varying
costume and fashion, but yet--and this was the strongest and most
thrilling part of the idea--all, the very oldest of them, bearing a
resemblance of feature, the kindred, the family likeness, to those who
died yesterday,--to those who still went thither to worship; and that
all the grassy and half-obliterated graves around had held those who
bore the same traits.
In front of the church was a little green, on which stood a very
ancient yew tree, [Endnote: 2] all the heart of which seemed to have
been eaten away by time, so that a man could now creep into the trunk,
through a wide opening, and, looking upward, see another opening to the
sky.
"That tree," observed the Warden, "is well worth the notice of such an
enthusiastic lover of old things; though I suppose aged trees may be
the one antiquity that you do not value, having them by myriads in your
primeval forests. But then the interest of this tree consists greatly
in what your trees have not,--in its long connection with men and the
goings of men. Some of its companions were made into bows for Harold's
archers. This tree is of unreckonable antiquity; so old, that in a
record of the time of Edward IV. it is styled the yew tree of
Braithwaite Green. That carries it back to Norman times, truly. It was
in comparatively modern times when it served as a gallows for one of
James II.'s bloodthirsty judges to hang his victims on after Monmouth's
rebellion."
