
On one side of this yew was a certain structure which Redclyffe did not
recognize as anything that he had before seen, but soon guessed its
purpose; though, from appearances, it seemed to have been very long
since it had served that purpose. It was a ponderous old oaken
framework, six or seven feet high, so contrived that a heavy cross-
piece shut down over another, leaving two round holes; in short, it was
a pair of stocks, in which, I suppose, hundreds of vagrants and petty
criminals had sat of old, but which now appeared to be merely a matter
of curiosity.
"This excellent old machine," said the Warden, "had been lying in a
rubbish chamber of the church tower for at least a century; when the
clerk, who is a little of an antiquarian, unearthed it, and I advised
him to set it here, where it used to stand;--not with any idea of its
being used (though there is as much need of it now as ever), but that
the present age may see what comforts it has lost."
They sat down a few moments on the circular seat, and looked at the
pretty scene of this quiet little village, clustered round the old
church as a centre; a collection of houses, mostly thatched, though
there were one or two, with rather more pretension, that had roofs of
red tiles. Some of them were stone cottages, whitewashed, but the
larger edifices had timber frames, filled in with brick and plaster,
which seemed to have been renewed in patches, and to be a frailer and
less durable material than the old oak of their skeletons. They were
gabled, with lattice windows, and picturesquely set off with projecting
stones, and many little patchwork additions, such as, in the course of
generations, the inhabitants had found themselves to need. There was
not much commerce, apparently, in this little village, there seeming to
be only one shop, with some gingerbread, penny whistles, ballads, and
such matters, displayed in the window; and there, too, across the
little green, opposite the church, was the village alehouse, with its
bench under the low projecting eaves, with a Teniers scene of two
wayfaring yeomen drinking a pot of beer and smoking their pipes.
With Redclyffe's Yankee feelings, there was something sad to think how
the generations had succeeded one another, over and over, in
innumerable succession, in this little spot, being born here, living,
dying, lying down among their fathers' dust, and forthwith getting up
again, as it were, and recommencing the same meaningless round, and
really bringing nothing to pass; for probably the generation of to-day,
in so secluded and motionless a place as this, had few or no ideas in
advance of their ancestors of five centuries ago. It seems not worth
while that more than one generation of them should have existed. Even
in dress, with their smock frocks and breeches, they were just like
their fathers. The stirring blood of the new land,--where no man dwells
in his father's house,--where no man thinks of dying in his
birthplace,--awoke within him, and revolted at the thought; and, as
connected with it, revolted at all the hereditary pretensions which,
since his stay here, had exercised such an influence over the fanciful
part of his nature. In another mood, the village might have seemed a
picture of rural peace, which it would have been worth while to give up
ambition to enjoy; now, as his warmer impulse stirred, it was a
weariness to think of. The new American was stronger in him than the
hereditary Englishman.
"I should go mad of it!" exclaimed he aloud.
He started up impulsively, to the amazement of his companion, who of
course could not comprehend what seemed so to have stung his American
friend. As they passed the tree, on the other side of its huge trunk,
they saw a young woman, sitting on that side of it, and sketching,
apparently, the church tower, with the old Elizabethan vicarage that
stood near it, with a gate opening into the churchyard, and much
embowered and ivy-hung.
"Ah, Miss Cheltenham," said the Warden. "I am glad to see that you have
taken the old church in hand, for it is one of the prettiest rustic
churches in England, and as well worthy as any to be engraved on a
sheet of note-paper or put into a portfolio. Will you let my friend and
me see your sketch?"
The Warden had made his request with rather more freedom than perhaps
he would to a lady whom he considered on a level with himself, though
with perfect respect, that being considered; and Redclyffe, looking at
the person, saw that it was the same of whose face he had had a glimpse
in the looking-glass, in the old palmer's chamber.
"No, Doctor Hammond," said the young lady, with a respectful sort of
frankness, "you must excuse me. I am no good artist, and am but jotting
down the old church because I like it."
"Well, well, as you please," said the Warden; and whispered aside to
Redclyffe, "A girl's sketchbook is seldom worth looking at. But now,
Miss Cheltenham, I am about to give my American friend here a lecture
on gargoyles, and other peculiarities of sacred Gothic architecture;
and if you will honor me with your attention, I should be glad to find
my audience increased by one."
So the young lady arose, and Redclyffe, considering the Warden's
allusion to him as a sort of partial introduction, bowed to her, and
she responded with a cold, reserved, yet not unpleasant sort of
courtesy. They went towards the church porch, and, looking in at the
old stone bench on each side of the interior, the Warden showed them
the hacks of the swords of the Roundheads, when they took it by storm.
Redclyffe, mindful of the old graveyard on the edge of which he had
spent his childhood, began to look at this far more antique receptacle,
expecting to find there many ancient tombstones, perhaps of
contemporaries or predecessors of the founders of his country. In this,
however, he was disappointed, at least in a great measure; for the
persons buried in the churchyard were probably, for the most part, of a
humble rank in life, such as were not so ambitious as to desire a
monument of any kind, but were content to let their low earth-mounds
subside into the level, where their memory had waxed so faint that none
among the survivors could point out the spot, or cared any longer about
knowing it; while in other cases, where a monument of red freestone, or
even of hewn granite, had been erected, the English climate had
forthwith set to work to gnaw away the inscriptions; so that in fifty
years--in a time that would have left an American tombstone as fresh as
if just cut--it was quite impossible to make out the record. Their
superiors, meanwhile, were sleeping less enviably in dismal mouldy and
dusty vaults, instead of under the daisies. Thus Redclyffe really found
less antiquity here, than in the graveyard which might almost be called
his natal spot.
When he said something to this effect, the Warden nodded.
