
"Accept it?" cried the Warden, opening his eyes. "I should think so,
indeed! Why, it puts you above the level of the highest nobility of the
Court to which you are accredited; simple republican as you are, it
gives you rank with the old blood and birth of Europe. Accept it? By
all means; and I will come and see you at your court."
"Nothing is more different between England and America," said
Redclyffe, "than the different way in which the citizen of either
country looks at official station. To an Englishman, a commission, of
whatever kind, emanating from his sovereign, brings apparently a
gratifying sense of honor; to an American, on the contrary, it offers
really nothing of the kind. He ceases to be a sovereign,--an atom of
sovereignty, at all events,--and stoops to be a servant. If I accept
this mission, honorable as you think it, I assure you I shall not feel
myself quite the man I have hitherto been; although there is no
obstacle in the way of party obligations or connections to my taking
it, if I please."
"I do not well understand this," quoth the good Warden. "It is one of
the promises of Scripture to the wise man, that he shall stand before
kings, and that this embassy will enable you to do. No man--no man of
your country surely--is more worthy to do so; so pray accept."
"I think I shall," said Redclyffe.
Much as the Warden had seemed to affectionize Redclyffe hitherto, the
latter could not but be sensible, thereafter, of a certain deference in
his friend towards him, which he would fain have got rid of, had it
been in his power. However, there was still the same heartiness under
it all; and after a little he seemed, in some degree, to take
Redclyffe's own view of the matter;--namely, that, being so temporary
as these republican distinctions are, they really do not go skin deep,
have no reality in them, and that the sterling quality of the man, be
it higher or lower, is nowise altered by it;--an apothegm that is true
even of an hereditary nobility, and still more so of our own Honorables
and Excellencies. However, the good Warden was glad of his friend's
dignity, and perhaps, too, a little glad that this high fortune had
befallen one whom he chanced to be entertaining under his roof. As it
happened, there was an opportunity which might be taken advantage of to
celebrate the occasion; at least, to make it known to the English world
so far as the extent of the county. [Endnote: 1.]
It was an hereditary custom for the warden of Braithwaite Hospital,
once a year, to give a grand dinner to the nobility and gentry of the
neighborhood; and to this end a bequest had been made by one of the
former squires or lords of Braithwaite which would of itself suffice to
feed forty or fifty Englishmen with reasonable sumptuousness. The
present Warden, being a gentleman of private fortune, was accustomed to
eke the limited income, devoted for this purpose, with such additions
from his own resources as brought the rude and hearty hospitality
contemplated by the first founder on a par with modern refinements of
gourmandism. The banquet was annually given in the fine old hall where
James II. had feasted; and on some of these occasions the Warden's
table had been honored with illustrious guests; especially when any of
them happened to be wanting an opportunity to come before the public in
an after-dinner speech. Just at present there was no occasion of that
sort; and the good Warden fancied that he might give considerable
_eclat_ to his hereditary feast by bringing forward the young
American envoy, a distinguished and eloquent man, to speak on the well-
worn topic of the necessity of friendly relations between England and
America.
"You are eloquent, I doubt not, my young friend?" inquired he.
"Why, no," answered Redclyffe, modestly.
"Ah, yes, I know it," returned the Warden. "If one have all the natural
prerequisites of eloquence; a quick sensibility, ready thought, apt
expression, a good voice--and not making its way into the world through
your nose either, as they say most of your countrymen's voices do. You
shall make the crack speech at my dinner; and so strengthen the bonds
of good fellowship between our two countries, that there shall be no
question of war for at least six months to come."
Accordingly, the preparations for this stately banquet went on with
great spirit; and the Warden exhorted Redclyffe to be thinking of some
good topics for his international speech; but the young man laughed it
off, and told his friend that he thought the inspiration of the moment,
aided by the good old wine which the Warden had told him of, as among
the treasures of the Hospital, would perhaps serve him better than any
elaborate preparation.
Redclyffe, being not even yet strong, used to spend much time, when the
day chanced to be pleasant, (which was oftener than his preconceptions
of English weather led him to expect,) in the garden behind the
Warden's house. It was an extensive one, and apparently as antique as
the foundation of the establishment; and during all these years it had
probably been growing richer and richer. Here were flowers of ancient
race, and some that had been merely field or wayside flowers when first
they came into the garden; but by long cultivation and hereditary care,
instead of dying out, they had acquired a new richness and beauty, so
that you would scarcely recognize the daisy or the violet. Roses too,
there were, which Doctor Hammond said had been taken from those white
and red rose-trees in the Temple Gardens, whence the partisans of York
and Lancaster had plucked their fatal badges. With these, there were
all the modern and far-fetched flowers from America, the East, and
elsewhere; even the prairie flowers and the California blossoms were
represented here; for one of the brethren had horticultural tastes, and
was permitted freely to exercise them there. The antique character of
the garden was preserved, likewise, by the alleys of box, a part of
which had been suffered to remain, and was now grown to a great height
and density, so as to make impervious green walls. There were also yew
trees clipped into strange shapes of bird and beast, and uncouth
heraldic figures, among which of course the leopard's head grinned
triumphant; and as for fruit, the high garden wall was lined with pear
trees, spread out flat against it, where they managed to produce a
cold, flavorless fruit, a good deal akin to cucumbers.
Here, in these genial old arbors, Redclyffe used to recline in the
sweet, mild summer weather, basking in the sun, which was seldom too
warm to make its full embrace uncomfortable; and it seemed to him, with
its fertility, with its marks everywhere of the quiet long-bestowed
care of man, the sweetest and cosiest seclusion he had ever known; and
two or three times a day, when he heard the screech of the railway
train, rushing on towards distant London, it impressed him still more
with a sense of safe repose here.
