
The children, after this conversation, often introduced the old English
mansion into their dreams and little romances, which all imaginative
children are continually mixing up with their lives, making the
commonplace day of grown people a rich, misty, glancing orb of fairy-
land to themselves. Ned, forgetting or not realizing the long lapse of
time, used to fancy the true heir wandering all this while in America,
and leaving a long track of bloody footsteps behind him; until the
period when, his sins being expiated (whatever they might be), he
should turn back upon his steps and return to his old native home. And
sometimes the child used to look along the streets of the town where he
dwelt, bending his thoughtful eyes on the ground, and think that
perhaps some time he should see the bloody footsteps there, betraying
that the wanderer had just gone that way.
As for little Elsie, it was her fancy that the hero of the legend still
remained imprisoned in that dreadful secret chamber, which had made a
most dread impression on her mind; and that there he was, forgotten all
this time, waiting, like a naughty child shut up in a closet, until
some one should come to unlock the door. In the pitifulness of her
disposition, she once proposed to little Ned that, as soon as they grew
big enough, they should set out in quest of the old house, and find
their way into it, and find the secret chamber, and let the poor
prisoner out. So they lived a good deal of the time in a half-waking
dream, partly conscious of the fantastic nature of their ideas, yet
with these ideas almost as real to them as the facts of the natural
world, which, to children, are at first transparent and unsubstantial.
The Doctor appeared to have a pleasure, or a purpose, in keeping his
legend forcibly in their memories; he often recurred to the subject of
the old English family, and was continually giving new details about
its history, the scenery in its neighborhood, the aspect of the
mansion-house; indicating a very intense interest in the subject on his
own part, of which this much talk seemed the involuntary overflowing.
There was, however, an affection mingled with this sentiment. It
appeared to be his unfortunate necessity to let his thoughts dwell very
constantly upon a subject that was hateful to him, with which this old
English estate and manor-house and family were somehow connected; and,
moreover, had he spoken thus to older and more experienced auditors,
they might have detected in the manner and matter of his talk, a
certain hereditary reverence and awe, the growth of ages, mixed up with
a newer hatred, impelling him to deface and destroy what, at the same
time, it was his deepest impulse to bow before. The love belonged to
his race; the hatred, to himself individually. It was the feeling of a
man lowly born, when he contracts a hostility to his hereditary
superior. In one way, being of a powerful, passionate nature, gifted
with force and ability far superior to that of the aristocrat, he might
scorn him and feel able to trample on him; in another, he had the same
awe that a country boy feels of the magistrate who flings him a
sixpence and shakes his horsewhip at him.
Had the grim Doctor been an American, he might have had the vast
antipathy to rank, without the trace of awe that made it so much more
malignant: it required a low-born Englishman to feel the two together.
What made the hatred so fiendish was a something that, in the natural
course of things, would have been loyalty, inherited affection, devoted
self-sacrifice to a superior. Whatever it might be, it seemed at times
(when his potations took deeper effect than ordinary) almost to drive
the grim Doctor mad; for he would burst forth in wild diatribes and
anathemas, having a strange, rough force of expression and a depth of
utterance, as if his words came from a bottomless pit within himself,
where burned an everlasting fire, and where the furies had their home;
and plans of dire revenge were welded into shape as in the heat of a
furnace. After the two poor children had been affrighted by paroxysms
of this kind, the strange being would break out into one of his roars
of laughter, that seemed to shake the house, and, at all events, caused
the cobwebs and spiders suspended from the ceiling, to swing and
vibrate with the motion of the volumes of reverberating breath which he
thus expelled from his capacious lungs. Then, catching up little Elsie
upon one knee and Ned upon the other, he would become gentler than in
his usual moods, and, by the powerful magnetism of his character, cause
them to think him as tender and sweet an old fellow as a child could
desire for a playmate. Upon the whole, strange as it may appear, they
loved the grim Doctor dearly; there was a loadstone within him that
drew them close to him and kept them there, in spite of the horror of
many things that he said and did. One thing that, slight as it seemed,
wrought mightily towards their mutually petting each other, was that no
amount of racket, hubbub, shouting, laughter, or noisy mischief which
the two children could perpetrate, ever disturbed the Doctor's studies,
meditations, or employments of whatever kind. He had a hardy set of
nerves, not refined by careful treatment in himself or his ancestors,
but probably accustomed from of old to be drummed on by harsh voices,
rude sounds, and the clatter and clamor of household life among homely,
uncultivated, strongly animal people.
As the two children grew apace, it behooved their strange guardian to
take some thought for their instruction. So far as little Elsie was
concerned, however, he seemed utterly indifferent to her having any
cultivation: having imbibed no modern ideas respecting feminine
capacities and privileges, but regarding woman, whether in the bud or
in the blossom, as the plaything of man's idler moments, and the
helpmeet--but in a humble capacity--of his daily life. He sometimes
bade her go to the kitchen and take lessons of crusty Hannah in bread-
making, sweeping, dusting, washing, the coarser needlework, and such
other things as she would require to know when she came to be a woman;
but carelessly allowed her to gather up the crumbs of such instruction
as he bestowed on her playmate Ned, and thus learn to read, write, and
cipher; which, to say the truth, was about as far in the way of
scholarship as little Elsie cared to go.
But towards little Ned the grim Doctor adopted a far different system.
No sooner had he reached the age when the soft and tender intellect of
the child became capable of retaining impressions, than he took him
vigorously in hand, assigning him such tasks as were fit for him, and
curiously investigating what were the force and character of the powers
with which the child grasped them. Not that the Doctor pressed him
forward unduly; indeed, there was no need of it; for the boy manifested
a remarkable docility for instruction, and a singular quickness in
mastering the preliminary steps which lead to science: a subtle
instinct, indeed, which it seemed wonderful a child should possess for
anything as artificial as systems of grammar and arithmetic. A
remarkable boy, in truth, he was, to have been found by chance in an
almshouse; except that, such being his origin, we are at liberty to
suppose for him whatever long cultivation and gentility we may think
necessary, in his parentage of either side,--such as was indicated also
by his graceful and refined beauty of person. He showed, indeed, even
before he began to read at all, an instinctive attraction towards
books, and a love for and interest in even the material form of
knowledge,--the plates, the print, the binding of the Doctor's volumes,
and even in a bookworm which he once found in an old volume, where it
had eaten a circular furrow. But the little boy had too quick a spirit
of life to be in danger of becoming a bookworm himself. He had this
side of the intellect, but his impulse would be to mix with men, and
catch something from their intercourse fresher than books could give
him; though these would give him what they might.
In the grim Doctor, rough and uncultivated as he seemed, this budding
intelligence found no inadequate instructor. Doctor Grimshawe proved
himself a far more thorough scholar, in the classics and mathematics,
than could easily have been found in our country. He himself must have
had rigid and faithful instruction at an early period of life, though
probably not in his boyhood. For, though the culture had been bestowed,
his mind had been left in so singularly rough a state that it seemed as
if the refinement of classical study could not have been begun very
early. Or possibly the mind and nature were incapable of polish; or he
may have had a coarse and sordid domestic life around him in his
infancy and youth. He was a gem of coarse texture, just hewn out. An
American with a like education would more likely have gained a certain
fineness and grace, and it would have been difficult to distinguish him
from one who had been born to culture and refinement. This sturdy
Englishman, after all that had been done for his mind, and though it
had been well done, was still but another ploughman, of a long race of
such, with a few scratchings of refinement on his hard exterior. His
son, if he left one, might be a little less of the ploughman; his
grandson, provided the female element were well chosen, might approach
to refinement; three generations--a century at least--would be required
for the slow toil of hewing, chiselling, and polishing a gentleman out
of this ponderous block, now rough from the quarry of human nature.
But, in the mean time, he evidently possessed in an unusual degree the
sort of learning that refines other minds,--the critical acquaintance
with the great poets and historians of antiquity, and apparently an
appreciation of their merits, and power to teach their beauty. So the
boy had an able tutor, capable, it would seem, of showing him the way
to the graces he did not himself possess; besides helping the growth of
the strength without which refinement is but sickly and disgusting.
Another sort of culture, which it seemed odd that this rude man should
undertake, was that of manners; but, in fact, rude as the grim Doctor's
own manners were, he was one of the nicest and severest censors in that
department that was ever known. It is difficult to account for this;
although it is almost invariably found that persons in a low rank of
life, such as servants and laborers, will detect the false pretender to
the character of a gentleman, with at least as sure an instinct as the
class into which they seek to thrust themselves. Perhaps they recognize
something akin to their own vulgarity, rather than appreciate what is
unlike themselves. The Doctor possessed a peculiar power of rich rough
humor on this subject, and used to deliver lectures, as it were, to
little Ned, illustrated with sketches of living individuals in the town
where they dwelt; by an unscrupulous use of whom he sought to teach the
boy what to avoid in manners, if he sought to be a gentleman. But it
must be confessed he spared himself as little as other people, and
often wound up with this compendious injunction,--"Be everything in
your behavior that Doctor Grim is not!"
His pupil, very probably, profited somewhat by these instructions; for
there are specialties and arbitrary rules of behavior which do not come
by nature. But these are few; and beautiful, noble, and genial manners
may almost be called a natural gift; and these, however he inherited
them, soon proved to be an inherent possession of little Ned. He had a
kind of natural refinement, which nothing could ever soil or offend; it
seemed, by some magic or other, absolutely to keep him from the
knowledge of much of the grim Doctor's rude and sordid exterior, and to
render what was around him beautiful by a sort of affiliation, or
reflection from that quality in himself, glancing its white light upon
it. The Doctor himself was puzzled, and apparently both startled and
delighted at the perception of these characteristics. Sometimes he
would make a low, uncouth bow, after his fashion, to the little fellow,
saying, "Allow me to kiss your hand, my lord!" and little Ned, not
quite knowing what the grim Doctor meant, yet allowed the favor he
asked, with a grave and gracious condescension that seemed much to
delight the suitor. This refusal to recognize or to suspect that the
Doctor might be laughing at him was a sure token, at any rate, of the
lack of one vulgar characteristic in little Ned.
In order to afford little Ned every advantage to these natural gifts,
Doctor Grim nevertheless failed not to provide the best attainable
instructor for such positive points of a polite education as his own
fierce criticism, being destructive rather than generative, would not
suffice for. There was a Frenchman in the town--a M. Le Grand, secretly
calling himself a Count--who taught the little people, and, indeed,
some of their elders, the Parisian pronunciation of his own language;
and likewise dancing (in which he was more of an adept and more
successful than in the former branch) and fencing: in which, after
looking at a lesson or two, the grim Doctor was satisfied of his skill.
Under his instruction, with the stimulus of the Doctor's praise and
criticism, Ned soon grew to be the pride of the Frenchman's school, in
both the active departments; and the Doctor himself added a further
gymnastic acquirement (not absolutely necessary, he said, to a
gentleman's education, but very desirable to a man perfect at all
points) by teaching him cudgel-playing and pugilism. In short, in
everything that related to accomplishments, whether of mind or body, no
pains were spared with little Ned; but of the utilitarian line of
education, then almost exclusively adopted, and especially desirable
for a fortuneless boy like Ned, dependent on a man not wealthy, there
was little given.
At first, too, the Doctor paid little attention to the moral and
religious culture of his pupil; nor did he ever make a system of it.
But by and by, though with a singular reluctance and kind of
bashfulness, he began to extend his care to these matters; being drawn
into them unawares, and possibly perceiving and learning what he taught
as he went along. One evening, I know not how, he was betrayed into
speaking on this point, and a sort of inspiration seized him. A vista
opened before him: handling an immortal spirit, he began to know its
requisitions, in a degree far beyond what he had conceived them to be
when his great task was undertaken. His voice grew deep, and had a
strange, impressive pathos in it; his talk became eloquent with depth
of meaning and feeling, as he told the boy of the moral dangers of the
world, for which he was seeking to educate him; and which, he said,
presented what looked like great triumphs, and yet were the greatest
and saddest of defeats. He told him that many things that seemed
nearest and dearest to the heart of man were destructive, eating and
gnawing away and corroding what was best in him; and what a high,
noble, re-creating triumph it was when these dark impulses were
resisted and overthrown; and how, from that epoch, the soul took a new
start. He denounced the selfish greed of gold, lawless passion,
revenge,--and here the grim Doctor broke out into a strange passion and
zeal of anathema against this deadly sin, making a dreadful picture of
the ruin that it creates in the heart where it establishes itself, and
how it makes a corrosive acid of those genial juices. Then he told the
boy that the condition of all good was, in the first place, truth;
then, courage; then, justice; then, mercy; out of which principles
operating upon one another would come all brave, noble, high, unselfish
actions, and the scorn of all mean ones; and how that from such a
nature all hatred would fall away, and all good affections would be
ennobled.
