
CHAPTER XX.
The guests were now rapidly taking their departure, and the Warden and
Redclyffe were soon left alone in the antique hall, which now, in its
solitude, presented an aspect far different from the gay festivity of
an hour before; the duskiness up in the carved oaken beams seemed to
descend and fill the hall; and the remembrance of the feast was like
one of those that had taken place centuries ago, with which this was
now numbered, and growing ghostly, and faded, and sad, even as they had
long been.
"Well, my dear friend," said the Warden, stretching himself and
yawning, "it is over. Come into my study with me, and we will have a
devilled turkey-bone and a pint of sherry in peace and comfort."
"I fear I can make no figure at such a supper," said Redclyffe. "But I
admire your inexhaustibleness in being ready for midnight refreshment
after such a feast."
"Not a glass of good liquor has moistened my lips to-night," said the
Warden, "save and except such as was supplied by a decanter of water
made brown with toast; and such a sip as I took to the health of the
Queen, and another to that of the Ambassador to Hohen-Linden. It is the
only way, when a man has this vast labor of speechifying to do; and
indeed there is no possibility of keeping up a jolly countenance for
such a length of time except on toast-water."
They accordingly adjourned to the Warden's sanctum, where that worthy
dignitary seemed to enjoy himself over his sherry and cracked bones, in
a degree that he probably had not heretofore; while Redclyffe, whose
potations had been more liberal, and who was feverish and disturbed,
tried the effect of a little brandy and soda-water. As often happens at
such midnight symposiums, the two friends found themselves in a more
kindly and confidential vein than had happened before, great as had
been the kindness and confidence already grown up between them.
Redclyffe told his friend of Lord Braithwaite's invitation, and of his
own resolution to accept it.
"Why not? You will do well," said the Warden; "and you will find his
Lordship an accustomed host, and the old house most interesting. If he
knows the secrets of it himself, and will show them, they will be well
worth the seeing."
"I have had a scruple in accepting this invitation," said Redclyffe.
"I cannot see why," said the Warden. "I advise it by all means, since I
shall lose nothing by it myself, as it will not lop off any part of
your visit to me."
