
The friends remained musing a considerable time, each in his own train
of thought, till the Warden suddenly spoke.
"Do you mean to prosecute this apparent claim of yours?"
"I have not intended to do so," said Redclyffe.
"Of course," said the Warden, "that should depend upon the strength of
your ground; and I understand you that there is some link wanting to
establish it. Otherwise, I see not how you can hesitate. Is it a little
thing to hold a claim to an old English estate and honors?"
"No; it is a very great thing, to an Englishman born, and who need give
up no higher birthright to avail himself of it," answered Redclyffe.
"You will laugh at me, my friend; but I cannot help feeling that I, a
simple citizen of a republic, yet with none above me except those whom
I help to place there,--and who are my servants, not my superiors,--
must stoop to take these honors. I leave a set of institutions which
are the noblest that the wit and civilization of man have yet
conceived, to enlist myself in one that is based on a far lower
conception of man, and which therefore lowers every one who shares in
it. Besides," said the young man, his eyes kindling with the ambition
which had been so active a principle in his life, "what prospects--what
rewards for spirited exertion--what a career, only open to an American,
would I give up, to become merely a rich and idle Englishman, belonging
(as I should) nowhere, without a possibility of struggle, such as a
strong man loves, with only a mockery of a title, which in these days
really means nothing,--hardly more than one of our own Honorables. What
has any success in English life to offer (even were it within my reach,
which, as a stranger, it would not be) to balance the proud career of
an American statesman?"
"True, you might be a President, I suppose," said the Warden, rather
contemptuously,--"a four years' potentate. It seems to me an office
about on a par with that of the Lord Mayor of London. For my part, I
would rather be a baron of three or four hundred years' antiquity."
"We talk in vain," said Redclyffe, laughing. "We do not approach one
another's ideas on this subject. But, waiving all speculations as to my
attempting to avail myself of this claim, do you think I can fairly
accept this invitation to visit Lord Braithwaite? There is certainly a
possibility that I may arraign myself against his dearest interests.
Conscious of this, can I accept his hospitality?"
The Warden paused. "You have not sought access to his house," he
observed. "You have no designs, it seems, no settled designs at all
events, against his Lordship,--nor is there a probability that they
would be forwarded by your accepting this invitation, even if you had
any. I do not see but you may go. The only danger is, that his
Lordship's engaging qualities may seduce you into dropping your claims
out of a chivalrous feeling, which I see is among your possibilities.
To be sure, it would be more satisfactory if he knew your actual
position, and should then renew his invitation."
"I am convinced," said Redclyffe, looking up from his musing posture,
"that he does know them. You are surprised; but in all Lord
Braithwaite's manner towards me there has been an undefinable something
that makes me aware that he knows on what terms we stand towards each
other. There is nothing inconceivable in this. The family have for
generations been suspicious of an American line, and have more than
once sent messengers to try to search out and put a stop to the
apprehension. Why should it not have come to their knowledge that there
was a person with such claims, and that he is now in England?"
"It certainly is possible," replied the Warden, "and if you are
satisfied that his Lordship knows it, or even suspects it, you meet him
on fair ground. But I fairly tell you, my good friend, that--his
Lordship being a man of unknown principles of honor, outlandish, and an
Italian in habit and moral sense--I scarcely like to trust you in his
house, he being aware that your existence may be inimical to him. My
humble board is the safer of the two."
"Pshaw!" said Redclyffe. "You Englishmen are so suspicious of anybody
not regularly belonging to yourselves. Poison and the dagger haunt your
conceptions of all others. In America you think we kill every third man
with the bowie-knife. But, supposing there were any grounds for your
suspicion, I would still encounter it. An American is no braver than an
Englishman; but still he is not quite so chary of his life as the
latter, who never risks it except on the most imminent necessity. We
take such matters easy. In regard to this invitation, I feel that I can
honorably accept it, and there are many idle and curious motives that
impel me to it. I will go."
"Be it so; but you must come back to me for another week, after
finishing your visit," said the Warden. "After all, it was an idle
fancy in me that there could be any danger. His Lordship has good
English blood in his veins, and it would take oceans and rivers of
Italian treachery to wash out the sterling quality of it. And, my good
friend, as to these claims of yours, I would not have you trust too
much to what is probably a romantic dream; yet, were the dream to come
true, I should think the British peerage honored by such an accession
to its ranks. And now to bed; for we have heard the chimes of midnight,
two hours agone."
