
They accordingly retired; and Redclyffe was surprised to find what a
distinctness his ideas respecting his claim to the Braithwaite honors
had assumed, now that he, after so many years, had imparted them to
another. Heretofore, though his imagination had played with them so
much, they seemed the veriest dreams; now, they had suddenly taken form
and hardened into substance; and he became aware, in spite of all the
lofty and patriotic sentiments which he had expressed to the Warden,
that these prospects had really much importance in his mind.
Redclyffe, during the few days that he was to spend at the Hospital,
previous to his visit to Braithwaite Hall, was conscious of a
restlessness such as we have all felt on the eve of some interesting
event. He wondered at himself at being so much wrought up by so simple
a thing as he was about to do; but it seemed to him like a coming home
after an absence of centuries. It was like an actual prospect of
entrance into a castle in the air,--the shadowy threshold of which
should assume substance enough to bear his foot, its thin, fantastic
walls actually protect him from sun and rain, its hall echo with his
footsteps, its hearth warm him. That delicious, thrilling uncertainty
between reality and fancy, in which he had often been enwrapt since his
arrival in this region, enveloped him more strongly than ever; and with
it, too, there came a sort of apprehension, which sometimes shuddered
through him like an icy draught, or the touch of cold steel to his
heart. He was ashamed, too, to be conscious of anything like fear; yet
he would not acknowledge it for fear; and indeed there was such an
airy, exhilarating, thrilling pleasure bound up with it, that it could
not really be so.
It was in this state of mind that, a day or two after the feast, he saw
Colcord sitting on the bench, before the portal of the Hospital, in the
sun, which--September though it was--still came warm and bright (for
English sunshine) into that sheltered spot; a spot where many
generations of old men had warmed their limbs, while they looked down
into the life, the torpid life, of the old village that trailed its
homely yet picturesque street along by the venerable buildings of the
Hospital.
"My good friend," said Redclyffe, "I am about leaving you, for a time,
--indeed, with the limited time at my disposal, it is possible that I
may not be able to come back hither, except for a brief visit. Before I
leave you, I would fain know something more about one whom I must ever
consider my benefactor."
"Yes," said the old man, with his usual benignant quiet, "I saved your
life. It is yet to be seen, perhaps, whether thereby I made myself your
benefactor. I trust so."
"I feel it so, at least," answered Redclyffe, "and I assure you life
has a new value for me since I came to this place; for I have a deeper
hold upon it, as it were,--more hope from it, more trust in something
good to come of it."
"This is a good change,--or should be so," quoth the old man.
"Do you know," continued Redclyffe, "how long you have been a figure in
my life?"
"I know it," said Colcord, "though you might well have forgotten it."
"Not so," said Redclyffe. "I remember, as if it were this morning, that
time in New England when I first saw you."
"The man with whom you then abode," said Colcord, "knew who I was."
"And he being dead, and finding you here now, by such a strange
coincidence," said Redclyffe, "and being myself a man capable of taking
your counsel, I would have you impart it to me: for I assure you that
the current of my life runs darkly on, and I would be glad of any light
on its future, or even its present phase."
