
"I am not one of those from whom the world waits for counsel," said the
pensioner, "and I know not that mine would be advantageous to you, in
the light which men usually prize. Yet if I were to give any, it would
be that you should be gone hence."
"Gone hence!" repeated Redclyffe, surprised. "I tell you--what I have
hardly hitherto told to myself--that all my dreams, all my wishes
hitherto, have looked forward to precisely the juncture that seems now
to be approaching. My dreaming childhood dreamt of this. If you know
anything of me, you know how I sprung out of mystery, akin to none, a
thing concocted out of the elements, without visible agency; how all
through my boyhood I was alone; how I grew up without a root, yet
continually longing for one,--longing to be connected with somebody,
and never feeling myself so. Yet there was ever a looking forward to
this time at which I now find myself. If my next step were death, yet
while the path seemed to lead toward a certainty of establishing me in
connection with my race, I would take it. I have tried to keep down
this yearning, to stifle it, annihilate it, by making a position for
myself, by being my own fact; but I cannot overcome the natural horror
of being a creature floating in the air, attached to nothing; ever this
feeling that there is no reality in the life and fortunes, good or bad,
of a being so unconnected. There is not even a grave, not a heap of dry
bones, not a pinch of dust, with which I can claim kindred, unless I
find it here!"
"This is sad," said the old man,--"this strong yearning, and nothing to
gratify it. Yet, I warn you, do not seek its gratification here. There
are delusions, snares, pitfalls, in this life. I warn you, quit the
search."
"No," said Redclyffe, "I will follow the mysterious clue that seems to
lead me on; and, even now, it pulls me one step further."
"How is that?" asked the old man.
"It leads me onward even as far as the threshold--across the threshold
--of yonder mansion," said Redclyffe.
"Step not across it; there is blood on that threshold!" exclaimed the
pensioner. "A bloody footstep emerging. Take heed that there be not as
bloody a one entering in!"
"Pshaw!" said Redclyffe, feeling the ridicule of the emotion into which
he had been betrayed, as the old man's wildness of demeanor made him
feel that he was talking with a monomaniac. "We are talking idly. I do
but go, in the common intercourse of society, to see the old English
residence which (such is the unhappy obscurity of my position) I fancy,
among a thousand others, may have been that of my ancestors. Nothing is
likely to come of it. My foot is not bloody, nor polluted with anything
except the mud of the damp English soil."
"Yet go not in!" persisted the old man.
"Yes, I must go," said Redclyffe, determinedly, "and I will."
Ashamed to have been moved to such idle utterances by anything that the
old man could say Redclyffe turned away, though he still heard the sad,
half-uttered remonstrance of the old man, like a moan behind him, and
wondered what strange fancy had taken possession of him.
The effect which this opposition had upon him made him the more aware
how much his heart was set upon this visit to the Hall; how much he had
counted upon being domiciliated there; what a wrench it would be to him
to tear himself away without going into that mansion, and penetrating
all the mysteries wherewith his imagination, exercising itself upon the
theme since the days of the old Doctor's fireside talk, had invested
it. In his agitation he wandered forth from the Hospital, and, passing
through the village street, found himself in the park of Braithwaite
Hall, where he wandered for a space, until his steps led him to a point
whence the venerable Hall appeared, with its limes and its oaks around
it; its look of peace, and aged repose, and loveliness; its stately
domesticity, so ancient, so beautiful; its mild, sweet simplicity; it
seemed the ideal of home. The thought thrilled his bosom, that this was
his home,--the home of the wild Western wanderer, who had gone away
centuries ago, and encountered strange chances, and almost forgotten
his origin, but still kept a clue to bring him back; and had now come
back, and found all the original emotions safe within him. It even
seemed to him, that, by his kindred with those who had gone before,--by
the line of sensitive blood linking him with that final emigrant,--he
could remember all these objects;--that tree, hardly more venerable now
than then; that clock-tower, still marking the elapsing time; that
spire of the old church, raising itself beyond. He spread out his arms
in a kind of rapture, and exclaimed:--
