
"O home, my home, my forefathers' home! I have come back to thee! The
wanderer has come back!"
There was a slight stir near him; and on a mossy seat, that was
arranged to take advantage of a remarkably good point of view of the
old Hall, he saw Elsie sitting. She had her drawing-materials with her,
and had probably been taking a sketch. Redclyffe was ashamed of having
been overheard by any one giving way to such idle passion as he had
been betrayed into; and yet, in another sense, he was glad,--glad, at
least, that something of his feeling, as yet unspoken to human being,
was shared, and shared by her with whom, alone of living beings, he had
any sympathies of old date, and whom he often thought of with feelings
that drew him irresistibly towards her.
"Elsie," said he, uttering for the first time the old name, "Providence
makes you my confidant. We have recognized each other, though no word
has passed between us. Let us speak now again with one another. How
came you hither? What has brought us together again?--Away with this
strangeness that lurks between us! Let us meet as those who began life
together, and whose life-strings, being so early twisted in unison,
cannot now be torn apart."
"You are not wise," said Elsie, in a faltering voice, "to break the
restraint we have tacitly imposed upon ourselves. Do not let us speak
further on this subject."
"How strangely everything evades me!" exclaimed Redclyffe. "I seem to
be in a land of enchantment, where I can get hold of nothing that lends
me a firm support. There is no medium in my life between the most
vulgar realities and the most vaporous fiction, too thin to breathe.
Tell me, Elsie, how came you here? Why do you not meet me frankly? What
is there to keep you apart from the oldest friend, I am bold to say,
you have on earth? Are you an English girl? Are you one of our own New
England maidens, with her freedom, and her know-how, and her force,
beyond anything that these demure and decorous damsels can know?"
"This is wild," said Elsie, straggling for composure, yet strongly
moved by the recollections that he brought up. "It is best that we
should meet as strangers, and so part."
"No," said Redclyffe; "the long past comes up, with its memories, and
yet it is not so powerful as the powerful present. We have met again;
our adventures have shown that Providence has designed a relation in my
fate to yours. Elsie, are you lonely as I am?"
"No," she replied, "I have bonds, ties, a life, a duty. I must live
that life and do that duty. You have, likewise, both. Do yours, lead
your own life, like me."
"Do you know, Elsie," he said, "whither that life is now tending?"
"Whither?" said she, turning towards him.
"To yonder Hall," said he.
She started up, and clasped her hands about his arm.
