
"No, no!" she exclaimed, "go not thither! There is blood upon the
threshold! Return: a dreadful fatality awaits you here."
"Come with me, then," said he, "and I yield my purpose."
"It cannot be," said Elsie.
"Then I, too, tell you it cannot be," returned Redclyffe. [Endnote: 2.]
The dialogue had reached this point, when there came a step along the
wood-path; the branches rustled, and there was Lord Braithwaite,
looking upon the pair with the ordinary slightly sarcastic glance with
which he gazed upon the world.
"A fine morning, fair lady and fair sir," said he. "We have few such,
except in Italy."
CHAPTER XXI.
So Redclyffe left the Hospital, where he had spent many weeks of
strange and not unhappy life, and went to accept the invitation of the
lord of Braithwaite Hall. It was with a thrill of strange delight,
poignant almost to pain, that he found himself driving up to the door
of the Hall, and actually passing the threshold of the house. He
looked, as he stept over it, for the Bloody Footstep, with which the
house had so long been associated in his imagination; but could nowhere
see it. The footman ushered him into a hall, which seemed to be in the
centre of the building, and where, little as the autumn was advanced, a
fire was nevertheless burning and glowing on the hearth; nor was its
effect undesirable in the somewhat gloomy room. The servants had
evidently received orders respecting the guest; for they ushered him at
once to his chamber, which seemed not to be one of those bachelor's
rooms, where, in an English mansion, young and single men are forced to
be entertained with very bare and straitened accommodations; but a
large, well, though antiquely and solemnly furnished room, with a
curtained bed, and all manner of elaborate contrivances for repose; but
the deep embrasures of the windows made it gloomy, with the little
light that they admitted through their small panes. There must have
been English attendance in this department of the household
arrangements, at least; for nothing could exceed the exquisite nicety
and finish of everything in the room, the cleanliness, the attention to
comfort, amid antique aspects of furniture; the rich, deep preparations
for repose.
