
I know not at what point it was, precisely, in these ethical
instructions that an insight seemed to strike the grim Doctor that
something more--vastly more--was needed than all he had said; and he
began, doubtfully, to speak of man's spiritual nature and its demands,
and the emptiness of everything which a sense of these demands did not
pervade, and condense, and weighten into realities. And going on in
this strain, he soared out of himself and astonished the two children,
who stood gazing at him, wondering whether it were the Doctor who was
speaking thus; until some interrupting circumstance seemed to bring him
back to himself, and he burst into one of his great roars of laughter.
The inspiration, the strange light whereby he had been transfigured,
passed out of his face; and there was the uncouth, wild-bearded, rough,
earthy, passionate man, whom they called Doctor Grim, looking ashamed
of himself, and trying to turn the whole matter into a jest. [Endnote: 2.]
It was a sad pity that he should have been interrupted, and brought
into this mocking mood, just when he seemed to have broken away from
the sinfulness of his hot, evil nature, and to have soared into a
region where, with all his native characteristics transfigured, he
seemed to have become an angel in his own likeness. Crusty Hannah, who
had been drawn to the door of the study by the unusual tones of his
voice,--a kind of piercing sweetness in it,--always averred that she
saw the gigantic spider swooping round his head in great crafty
circles, and clutching, as it were, at his brain with its great claws.
But it was the old woman's absurd idea that this hideous insect was the
Devil, in that ugly guise,--a superstition which deserves absolutely no
countenance. Nevertheless, though this paroxysm of devotional feeling
and insight returned no more to the grim Doctor, it was ever after a
memorable occasion to the two children. It touched that religious
chord, in both their hearts, which there was no mother to touch; but
now it vibrated long, and never ceased to vibrate so long as they
remained together,--nor, perhaps, after they were parted from each
other and from the grim Doctor. And even then, in those after years,
the strange music that had been awakened was continued, as it were the
echo from harps on high. Now, at all events, they made little prayers
for themselves, and said them at bedtime, generally in secret,
sometimes in unison; and they read in an old dusty Bible which lay
among the grim Doctor's books; and from little heathens, they became
Christian children. Doctor Grimshawe was perhaps conscious of this
result of his involuntary preachment, but he never directly noticed it,
and did nothing either to efface or deepen the impression.
It was singular, however, that, in both the children's minds, this one
gush of irresistible religious sentiment, breaking out of the grim
Doctor's inner depths, like a sort of holy lava from a volcano that
usually emitted quite other matter, (such as hot, melted wrath and
hate,) quite threw out of sight, then and always afterwards, his darker
characteristics. They remembered him, with faith and love, as a
religious man, and forgot--what perhaps had made no impression on their
innocent hearts--all the traits that other people might have called
devilish. To them the grim Doctor was a saint, even during his lifetime
and constant intercourse with them, and canonized forever afterwards.
There is almost always, to be sure, this profound faith, with regard to
those they love, in childhood; but perhaps, in this instance, the
children really had a depth of insight that grown people lacked; a
profound recognition of the bottom of this strange man's nature, which
was of such stuff as martyrs and heroic saints might have been made of,
though here it had been wrought miserably amiss. At any rate, his face
with the holy awe upon it was what they saw and remembered, when they
thought of their friend Doctor Grim.
One effect of his zealous and analytic instruction of the boy was very
perceptible. Heretofore, though enduring him, and occasionally making a
plaything of him, it may be doubted whether the grim Doctor had really
any strong affection for the child: it rather seemed as if his strong
will were forcing him to undertake, and carry sedulously forward, a
self-imposed task. All that he had done--his redeeming the bright child
from poverty and nameless degradation, ignorance, and a sordid life
hopeless of better fortune, and opening to him the whole realm of
mighty possibilities in an American life--did not imply any love for
the little individual whom he thus benefited. It had some other motive.
But now, approaching the child in this close, intimate, and helpful
way, it was very evident that his interest took a tenderer character.
There was everything in the boy, that a boy could possess, to attract
affection; he would have been a father's pride and joy. Doctor
Grimshawe, indeed, was not his father; but to a person of his character
this was perhaps no cause of lesser love than if there had been the
whole of that holy claim of kindred between them. We speak of the
natural force of blood; we speak of the paternal relation as if it were
productive of more earnest affection than can exist between two
persons, one of whom is protective, but unrelated. But there are wild,
forcible, unrestricted characters, on whom the necessity and even duty
of loving their own child is a sort of barrier to love. They perhaps do
not love their own traits, which they recognize in their children; they
shrink from their own features in the reflection presented by these
little mirrors. A certain strangeness and unlikeness (such as gives
poignancy to the love between the sexes) would excite a livelier
affection. Be this as it may, it is not probable that Doctor Grimshawe
would have loved a child of his own blood, with the coarse
characteristics that he knew both in his race and himself, with nearly
such fervor as this beautiful, slender, yet strenuous, intelligent,
refined boy,--with such a high-bred air, handling common things with so
refined a touch, yet grasping them so firmly; throwing a natural grace
on all he did. Was he not his father,--he that took this fair blossom
out of the sordid mud in which he must soon have withered and perished?
Was not this beautiful strangeness, which he so wondered at, the result
of his care?
And little Elsie? did the grim Doctor love her as well? Perhaps not,
for, in the first place, there was a natural tie, though not the
nearest, between her and Doctor Grimshawe, which made him feel that she
was cast upon his love: a burden which he acknowledged himself bound to
undertake. Then, too, there were unutterably painful reminiscences and
thoughts, that made him gasp for breath, that turned his blood sour,
that tormented his dreams with nightmares and hellish phantoms; all of
which were connected with this innocent and happy child; so that,
cheerful and pleasant as she was, there was to the grim Doctor a little
fiend playing about his floor and throwing a lurid light on the wall,
as the shadow of this sun-flickering child. It is certain that there
was always a pain and horror mixed with his feelings towards Elsie; he
had to forget himself, as it were, and all that was connected with the
causes why she came to be, before he could love her. Amid his fondness,
when he was caressing her upon his knee, pressing her to his rough
bosom, as he never took the freedom to press Ned, came these hateful
reminiscences, compelling him to set her down, and corrugating his
heavy brows as with a pang of fiercely resented, strongly borne pain.
Still, the child had no doubt contrived to make her way into the great
gloomy cavern of the grim Doctor's heart, and stole constantly further
and further in, carrying a ray of sunshine in her hand as a taper to
light her way, and illuminate the rude dark pit into which she so
fearlessly went.
CHAPTER V.
Doctor Grim [Endnote: 1] had the English faith in open air and daily
acquaintance with the weather, whatever it might be; and it was his
habit, not only to send the two children to play, for lack of a better
place, in the graveyard, but to take them himself on long rambles, of
which the vicinity of the town afforded a rich variety. It may be that
the Doctor's excursions had the wider scope, because both he and the
children were objects of curiosity in the town, and very much the
subject of its gossip: so that always, in its streets and lanes, the
people turned to gaze, and came to their windows and to the doors of
shops to see this grim, bearded figure, leading along the beautiful
children each by a hand, with a surly aspect like a bulldog. Their
remarks were possibly not intended to reach the ears of the party, but
certainly were not so cautiously whispered but they occasionally did do
so. The male remarks, indeed, generally died away in the throats that
uttered them; a circumstance that doubtless saved the utterer from some
very rough rejoinder at the hands of the Doctor, who had grown up in
the habit of a very ready and free recourse to his fists, which had a
way of doubling themselves up seemingly of their own accord. But the
shrill feminine voices sometimes sent their observations from window to
window without dread of any such repartee on the part of the subject of
them.
