
"Yes; and to think of crushing such a deep-bowelled monster!" said
Redclyffe, shuddering. "It is too great a catastrophe."
During this conversation in which he was so deeply concerned, the
spider withdrew himself, and hand over hand ascended to a remote and
dusky corner, where was his hereditary abode.
"Shall I be likely to meet Lord Braithwaite here in the library?" asked
Redclyffe, when the fiend had withdrawn himself. "I have not yet seen
him since my arrival."
"I trust," said the priest, with great courtesy, "that you are aware of
some peculiarities in his Lordship's habits, which imply nothing in
detriment to the great respect which he pays all his few guests, and
which, I know, he is especially desirous to pay to you. I think that we
shall meet him at lunch, which, though an English institution, his
Lordship has adopted very readily."
"I should hope," said Redclyffe, willing to know how far he might be
expected to comply with the peculiarities--which might prove to be
eccentricities--of his host, "that my presence here will not be too
greatly at variance with his Lordship's habits, whatever they may be. I
came hither, indeed, on the pledge that, as my host would not stand in
my way, so neither would I in his."
"That is the true principle," said the priest, "and here comes his
Lordship in person to begin the practice of it."
CHAPTER XXII.
Lord Braithwaite came into the principal door of the library as the
priest was speaking, and stood a moment just upon the threshold,
looking keenly out of the stronger light into this dull and darksome
apartment, as if unable to see perfectly what was within; or rather, as
Redclyffe fancied, trying to discover what was passing between those
two. And, indeed, as when a third person comes suddenly upon two who
are talking of him, the two generally evince in their manner some
consciousness of the fact; so it was in this case, with Redclyffe at
least, although the priest seemed perfectly undisturbed, either through
practice of concealment, or because he had nothing to conceal.
