
His Lordship, after a moment's pause, came forward, presenting his hand
to Redclyffe, who shook it, and not without a certain cordiality; till
he perceived that it was the left hand, when he probably intimated some
surprise by a change of manner.
"I am an awkward person," said his Lordship. "The left hand, however,
is nearest the heart; so be assured I mean no discourtesy."
"The Signor Ambassador and myself," observed the priest, "have had a
most interesting conversation (to me at least) about books and
bookworms, spiders, and other congruous matters; and I find his
Excellency has heretofore made acquaintance with a great spider bearing
strong resemblance to the hermit of our library."
"Indeed," said his Lordship. "I was not aware that America had yet
enough of age and old misfortune, crime, sordidness, that accumulate
with it, to have produced spiders like this. Had he sucked into himself
all the noisomeness of your heat?"
Redclyffe made some slight answer, that the spider was a sort of pet of
an old virtuoso to whom he owed many obligations in his boyhood; and
the conversation turned from this subject to others suggested by topics
of the day and place. His Lordship was affable, and Redclyffe could
not, it must be confessed, see anything to justify the prejudices of
the neighbors against him. Indeed, he was inclined to attribute them,
in great measure, to the narrowness of the English view,--to those
insular prejudices which have always prevented them from fully
appreciating what differs from their own habits. At lunch, which was
soon announced, the party of three became very pleasant and sociable,
his Lordship drinking a light Italian red wine, and recommending it to
Redclyffe; who, however, was English enough to prefer some bitter ale,
while the priest contented himself with pure water,--which is, in
truth, a less agreeable drink in chill, moist England than in any
country we are acquainted with.
"You must make yourself quite at home here," said his Lordship, as they
rose from table. "I am not a good host, nor a very genial man, I
believe. I can do little to entertain you; but here is the house and
the grounds at your disposal,--horses in the stable,--guns in the
hall,--here is Father Angelo, good at chess. There is the library. Pray
make the most of them all; and if I can contribute in any way to your
pleasure, let me know."
All this certainly seemed cordial, and the manner in which it was said
seemed in accordance with the spirit of the words; and yet, whether the
fault was in anything of morbid suspicion in Redclyffe's nature, or
whatever it was, it did not have the effect of making him feel welcome,
which almost every Englishman has the natural faculty of producing on a
guest, when once he has admitted him beneath his roof. It might be in
great measure his face, so thin and refined, and intellectual without
feeling; his voice which had melody, but not heartiness; his manners,
which were not simple by nature, but by art;--whatever it was,
Redclyffe found that Lord Braithwaite did not call for his own
naturalness and simplicity, but his art, and felt that he was
inevitably acting a part in his intercourse with him, that he was on
his guard, playing a game; and yet he did not wish to do this. But
there was a mobility, a subtleness in his nature, an unconscious tact,
--which the mode of life and of mixing with men in America fosters and
perfects,--that made this sort of finesse inevitable to him, with any
but a natural character; with whom, on the other hand, Redclyffe could
be as fresh and natural as any Englishman of them all.
Redclyffe spent the time between lunch and dinner in wandering about
the grounds, from which he had hitherto felt himself debarred by
motives of delicacy. It was a most interesting ramble to him, coming to
trees which his ancestor, who went to America, might have climbed in
his boyhood, might have sat beneath, with his lady-love, in his youth;
deer there were, the descendants of those which he had seen; old stone
stiles, which his foot had trodden. The sombre, clouded light of the
day fell down upon this scene, which in its verdure, its luxuriance of
vegetable life, was purely English, cultivated to the last extent
without losing the nature out of a single thing. In the course of his
walk he came to the spot where he had been so mysteriously wounded on
his first arrival in this region; and, examining the spot, he was
startled to see that there was a path leading to the other side of a
hedge, and this path, which led to the house, had brought him here.
Musing upon this mysterious circumstance, and how it should have
happened in so orderly a country as England, so tamed and subjected to
civilization,--an incident to happen in an English park which seemed
better suited to the Indian-haunted forests of the wilder parts of his
own land,--and how no researches which the Warden had instituted had
served in the smallest degree to develop the mystery,--he clambered
over the hedge, and followed the footpath. It plunged into dells, and
emerged from them, led through scenes which seemed those of old
romances, and at last, by these devious ways, began to approach the old
house, which, with its many gray gables, put on a new aspect from this
point of view. Redclyffe admired its venerableness anew; the ivy that
overran parts of it; the marks of age; and wondered at the firmness of
the institutions which, through all the changes that come to man, could
have kept this house the home of one lineal race for so many centuries;
so many, that the absence of his own branch from it seemed but a
temporary visit to foreign parts, from which he was now returned, to be
again at home, by the old hearthstone.
"But what do I mean to do?" said he to himself, stopping short, and
still looking at the old house. "Am I ready to give up all the actual
life before me for the sake of taking up with what I feel to be a less
developed state of human life? Would it not be better for me to depart
now, to turn my back on this flattering prospect? I am not fit to be
here,--I, so strongly susceptible of a newer, more stirring life than
these men lead; I, who feel that, whatever the thought and cultivation
of England may be, my own countrymen have gone forward a long, long
march beyond them, not intellectually, but in a way that gives them a
further start. If I come back hither, with the purpose to make myself
an Englishman, especially an Englishman of rank and hereditary estate,
--then for me America has been discovered in vain, and the great spirit
that has been breathed into us is in vain; and I am false to it all!"
But again came silently swelling over him like a flood all that ancient
peace, and quietude, and dignity, which looked so stately and beautiful
as brooding round the old house; all that blessed order of ranks, that
sweet superiority, and yet with no disclaimer of common brotherhood,
that existed between the English gentleman and his inferiors; all that
delightful intercourse, so sure of pleasure, so safe from rudeness,
lowness, unpleasant rubs, that exists between gentleman and gentleman,
where, in public affairs, all are essentially of one mind, or seem so
to an American politician, accustomed to the fierce conflicts of our
embittered parties; where life was made so enticing, so refined, and
yet with a sort of homeliness that seemed to show that all its strength
was left behind; that seeming taking in of all that was desirable in
life, and all its grace and beauty, yet never giving life a hard enamel
of over-refinement. What could there be in the wild, harsh, ill-
conducted American approach to civilization, which could compare with
this? What to compare with this juiciness and richness? What other men
had ever got so much out of life as the polished and wealthy Englishmen
of to-day? What higher part was to be acted, than seemed to lie before
him, if he willed to accept it?
He resumed his walk, and, drawing near the manor-house, found that he
was approaching another entrance than that which had at first admitted
him; a very pleasant entrance it was, beneath a porch, of antique form,
and ivy-clad, hospitable and inviting; and it being the approach from
the grounds, it seemed to be more appropriate to the residents of the
house than the other one. Drawing near, Redclyffe saw that a flight of
steps ascended within the porch, old-looking, much worn; and nothing is
more suggestive of long time than a flight of worn steps; it must have
taken so many soles, through so many years, to make an impression.
Judging from the make of the outside of the edifice, Redclyffe thought
that he could make out the way from the porch to the hall and library;
so he determined to enter this way.
