
There had been, as was not unusual, a little shower of rain during the
afternoon; and as Redclyffe came close to the steps, they were
glistening with the wet. The stones were whitish, like marble, and one
of them bore on it a token that made him pause, while a thrill like
terror ran through his system. For it was the mark of a footstep, very
decidedly made out, and red, like blood,--the Bloody Footstep,--the
mark of a foot, which seemed to have been slightly impressed into the
rock, as if it had been a soft substance, at the same time sliding a
little, and gushing with blood. The glistening moisture of which we
have spoken made it appear as if it were just freshly stamped there;
and it suggested to Redclyffe's fancy the idea, that, impressed more
than two centuries ago, there was some charm connected with the mark
which kept it still fresh, and would continue to do so to the end of
time. It was well that there was no spectator there,--for the American
would have blushed to have it known how much this old traditionary
wonder had affected his imagination. But, indeed, it was as old as any
bugbear of his mind--as any of those bugbears and private terrors which
grow up with people, and make the dreams and nightmares of childhood,
and the fever-images of mature years, till they haunt the deliriums of
the dying bed, and after that possibly, are either realized or known no
more. The Doctor's strange story vividly recurred to him, and all the
horrors which he had since associated with this trace; and it seemed to
him as if he had now struck upon a bloody track, and as if there were
other tracks of this supernatural foot which he was bound to search
out; removing the dust of ages that had settled on them, the moss and
deep grass that had grown over them, the forest leaves that might have
fallen on them in America--marking out the pathway, till the pedestrian
lay down in his grave.
The foot was issuing from, not entering into, the house. Whoever had
impressed it, or on whatever occasion, he had gone forth, and doubtless
to return no more. Redclyffe was impelled to place his own foot on the
track; and the action, as it were, suggested in itself strange ideas of
what had been the state of mind of the man who planted it there; and he
felt a strange, vague, yet strong surmise of some agony, some terror
and horror, that had passed here, and would not fade out of the spot.
While he was in these musings, he saw Lord Braithwaite looking at him
through the glass of the porch, with fixed, curious eyes, and a smile
on his face. On perceiving that Redclyffe was aware of his presence, he
came forth without appearing in the least disturbed.
"What think you of the Bloody Footstep?" asked he.
"It seems to me, undoubtedly," said Redclyffe, stooping to examine it
more closely, "a good thing to make a legend out of; and, like most
legendary lore, not capable of bearing close examination. I should
decidedly say that the Bloody Footstep is a natural reddish stain in
the stone."
"Do you think so, indeed?" rejoined his Lordship. "It may be; but in
that case, if not the record of an actual deed,--of a foot stamped down
there in guilt and agony, and oozing out with unwipeupable blood,--we
may consider it as prophetic;--as foreboding, from the time when the
stone was squared and smoothed, and laid at this threshold, that a
fatal footstep was really to be impressed here."
"It is an ingenious supposition," said Redclyffe. "But is there any
sure knowledge that the prophecy you suppose has yet been fulfilled?"
"If not, it might yet be in the future," said Lord Braithwaite. "But I
think there are enough in the records of this family to prove that
there did one cross this threshold in a bloody agony, who has since
returned no more. Great seekings, I have understood, have been had
throughout the world for him, or for any sign of him, but nothing
satisfactory has been heard."
"And it is now too late to expect it," observed the American.
"Perhaps not," replied the nobleman, with a glance that Redclyffe
thought had peculiar meaning in it. "Ah! it is very curious to see what
turnings up there are in this world of old circumstances that seem
buried forever; how things come back, like echoes that have rolled away
among the hills and been seemingly hushed forever. We cannot tell when
a thing is really dead; it comes to life, perhaps in its old shape,
perhaps in a new and unexpected one; so that nothing really vanishes
out of the world. I wish it did."
The conversation now ceased, and Redclyffe entered the house, where he
amused himself for some time in looking at the ancient hall, with its
gallery, its armor, and its antique fireplace, on the hearth of which
burned a genial fire. He wondered whether in that fire was the
continuance of that custom which the Doctor's legend spoke of, and that
the flame had been kept up there two hundred years, in expectation of
the wanderer's return. It might be so, although the climate of England
made it a natural custom enough, in a large and damp old room, into
which many doors opened, both from the exterior and interior of the
mansion; but it was pleasant to think the custom a traditionary one,
and to fancy that a booted figure, enveloped in a cloak, might still
arrive, and fling open the veiling cloak, throw off the sombre and
drooping-brimmed hat, and show features that were similar to those seen
in pictured faces on the walls. Was he himself--in another guise, as
Lord Braithwaite had been saying--that long-expected one? Was his the
echoing tread that had been heard so long through the ages--so far
through the wide world--approaching the blood-stained threshold?
With such thoughts, or dreams (for they were hardly sincerely enough
entertained to be called thoughts), Redclyffe spent the day; a strange,
delicious day, in spite of the sombre shadows that enveloped it. He
fancied himself strangely wonted, already, to the house; as if his
every part and peculiarity had at once fitted into its nooks, and
corners, and crannies; but, indeed, his mobile nature and active fancy
were not entirely to be trusted in this matter; it was, perhaps, his
American faculty of making himself at home anywhere, that he mistook
for the feeling of being peculiarly at home here.
