
"My master! Who was speaking of him?" said the old man, as if
surprised. "Ah, I was thinking of Dr. Grimshawe. He was my master, you
know."
And Redclyffe was again inconceivably struck with the strength of the
impression that was made on the poor old man's mind by the character of
the old Doctor; so that, after thirty years of other service, he still
felt him to be the master, and could not in the least release himself
from those earlier bonds. He remembered a story that the Doctor used to
tell of his once recovering a hanged person, and more and more came to
the conclusion that this was the man, and that, as the Doctor had said,
this hold of a strong mind over a weak one, strengthened by the idea
that he had made him, had subjected the man to him in a kind of slavery
that embraced the soul.
And then, again, the lord of the estate interested him greatly, and not
unpleasantly. He compared what he seemed to be now with what, according
to all reports, he had been in the past, and could make nothing of it,
nor reconcile the two characters in the least. It seemed as if the
estate were possessed by a devil,--a foul and melancholy fiend,--who
resented the attempted possession of others by subjecting them to
himself. One had turned from quiet and sober habits to reckless
dissipation; another had turned from the usual gayety of life to
recluse habits, and both, apparently, by the same influence; at least,
so it appeared to Redclyffe, as he insulated their story from all other
circumstances, and looked at them by one light. He even thought that he
felt a similar influence coming over himself, even in this little time
that he had spent here; gradually, should this be his permanent
residence,--and not so very gradually either,--there would come its own
individual mode of change over him. That quick suggestive mind would
gather the moss and lichens of decay. Palsy of its powers would
probably be the form it would assume. He looked back through the
vanished years to the time which he had spent with the old Doctor, and
he felt unaccountably as if the mysterious old man were yet ruling him,
as he did in his boyhood; as if his inscrutable, inevitable eye were
upon him in all his movements; nay, as if he had guided every step that
he took in coming hither, and were stalking mistily before him, leading
him about. He sometimes would gladly have given up all these wild and
enticing prospects, these dreams that had occupied him so long, if he
could only have gone away and looked back upon the house, its inmates,
and his own recollections no more; but there came a fate, and took the
shape of the old Doctor's apparition, holding him back.
And then, too, the thought of Elsie had much influence in keeping him
quietly here; her natural sunshine was the one thing that, just now,
seemed to have a good influence upon the world. She, too, was evidently
connected with this place, and with the fate, whatever it might be,
that awaited him here. The Doctor, the ruler of his destiny, had
provided her as well as all the rest; and from his grave, or wherever
he was, he still seemed to bring them together.
So here, in this darkened dream, he waited for what should come to
pass; and daily, when he sat down in the dark old library, it was with
the thought that this day might bring to a close the doubt amid which
he lived,--might give him the impetus to go forward. In such a state,
no doubt, the witchcraft of the place was really to be recognized, the
old witchcraft, too, of the Doctor, which he had escaped by the quick
ebullition of youthful spirit, long ago, while the Doctor lived; but
which had been stored up till now, till an influence that remained
latent for years had worked out in active disease. He held himself open
for intercourse with the lord of the mansion; and intercourse of a
certain nature they certainly had, but not of the kind which Redclyffe
desired. They talked together of politics, of the state of the
relations between England and America, of the court to which Redclyffe
was accredited; sometimes Redclyffe tried to lead the conversation to
the family topics, nor, in truth, did Lord Braithwaite seem to decline
his lead; although it was observable that very speedily the
conversation would be found turned upon some other subject, to which it
had swerved aside by subtle underhand movements. Yet Redclyffe was not
the less determined, and at no distant period, to bring up the subject
on which his mind dwelt so much, and have it fairly discussed between
them.
He was sometimes a little frightened at the position and circumstances
in which he found himself; a great disturbance there was in his being,
the causes of which he could not trace. It had an influence on his
dreams, through which the Doctor seemed to pass continually, and when
he awoke it was often with the sensation that he had just the moment
before been holding conversation with the old man, and that the latter
--with that gesture of power that he remembered so well--had been
impressing some command upon him; but what that command was, he could
not possibly call to mind. He wandered among the dark passages of the
house, and up its antique staircases, as if expecting at every turn to
meet some one who would have the word of destiny to say to him. When he
went forth into the park, it was as if to hold an appointment with one
who had promised to meet him there; and he came slowly back, lingering
and loitering, because this expected one had not yet made himself
visible, yet plucked up a little alacrity as he drew near the house,
because the communicant might have arrived in his absence, and be
waiting for him in the dim library. It seemed as if he was under a
spell; he could neither go away nor rest,--nothing but dreams, troubled
dreams. He had ghostly fears, as if some one were near him whom he
could not make out; stealing behind him, and starting away when he was
impelled to turn round. A nervousness that his healthy temperament had
never before permitted him to be the victim of, assailed him now. He
could not help imputing it partly to the influence of the generations
who had left a portion of their individual human nature in the house,
which had become magnetic by them and could not rid itself of their
presence in one sense, though, in another, they had borne it as far off
as to where the gray tower of the village church rose above their
remains.
Again, he was frightened to perceive what a hold the place was getting
upon him; how the tendrils of the ivy seemed to hold him and would not
let him go; how natural and homelike (grim and sombre as they were) the
old doorways and apartments were becoming; how in no place that he had
ever known had he had such a home-like feeling. To be sure, poor
fellow, he had no earlier home except the almshouse, where his
recollection of a fireside crowded by grim old women and pale, sickly
children, of course never allowed him to have the reminiscences of a
private, domestic home. But then there was the Doctor's home by the
graveyard, and little Elsie, his constant playmate? No, even those
recollections did not hold him like this heavy present circumstance.
How should he ever draw himself away? No; the proud and vivid and
active prospects that had heretofore spread themselves before him,--the
striving to conquer, the struggle, the victory, the defeat, if such it
was to be,--the experiences for good or ill,--the life, life, life,--
all possibility of these was passing from him; all that hearty earnest
contest or communion of man with man; and leaving him nothing but this
great sombre shade, this brooding of the old family mansion, with its
dreary ancestral hall, its mouldy dignity, its life of the past, its
fettering honor, which to accept must bind him hand and foot, as
respects all effort, such as he had trained himself for,--such as his
own country offered. It was not any value for these,--as it seemed to
Redclyffe,--but a witchcraft, an indefinable spell, a something that he
could not define, that enthralled him, and was now doing a work on him
analogous to, though different from, that which was wrought on Omskirk
and all the other inhabitants, high and low, of this old mansion.
He felt greatly interested in the master of the mansion; although
perhaps it was not from anything in his nature; but partly because he
conceived that he himself had a controlling power over his fortunes,
and likewise from the vague perception of this before-mentioned trouble
in him. It seemed, whatever it might be, to have converted an ordinary
superficial man of the world into a being that felt and suffered
inwardly, had pangs, fears, a conscience, a sense of unseen things. It
seemed as if underneath this manor-house were the entrance to the cave
of Trophonius, one visit to which made a man sad forever after; and
that Lord Braithwaite had been there once, or perhaps went nightly, or
at any hour. Or the mansion itself was like dark-colored experience,
the reality; the point of view where things were seen in their true
lights; the true world, all outside of which was delusion, and here--
dreamlike as its structures seemed--the absolute truth. All those that
lived in it were getting to be a brotherhood; and he among them; and
perhaps before the blood-stained threshold would grow up an impassable
barrier, which would cause himself to sit down in dreary quiet, like
the rest of them.
Redclyffe, as has been intimated, had an unavowed--unavowed to himself
--suspicion that the master of the house cherished no kindly purpose
towards him; he had an indistinct feeling of danger from him; he would
not have been surprised to know that he was concocting a plot against
his life; and yet he did not think that Lord Braithwaite had the
slightest hostility towards him. It might make the thing more horrible,
perhaps; but it has been often seen in those who poison for the sake of
interest, without feelings of personal malevolence, that they do it as
kindly as the nature of the thing will permit; they, possibly, may even
have a certain degree of affection for their victims, enough to induce
them to make the last hours of life sweet and pleasant; to wind up the
fever of life with a double supply of enjoyable throbs; to sweeten and
delicately flavor the cup of death that they offer to the lips of him
whose life is inconsistent with some stated necessity of their own.
"Dear friend," such a one might say to the friend whom he reluctantly
condemned to death, "think not that there is any base malice, any
desire of pain to thee, that actuates me in this thing. Heaven knows, I
earnestly wish thy good. But I have well considered the matter,--more
deeply than thou hast,--and have found that it is essential that one
thing should be, and essential to that thing that thou, my friend,
shouldst die. Is that a doom which even thou wouldst object to with
such an end to be answered? Thou art innocent; thou art not a man of
evil life; the worst thing that can come of it, so far as thou art
concerned, would be a quiet, endless repose in yonder churchyard, among
dust of thy ancestry, with the English violets growing over thee there,
and the green, sweet grass, which thou wilt not scorn to associate with
thy dissolving elements, remembering that thy forefather owed a debt,
for his own birth and growth, to this English soil, and paid it not,--
consigned himself to that rough soil of another clime, under the forest
leaves. Pay it, dear friend, without repining, and leave me to battle a
little longer with this troublesome world, and in a few years to rejoin
thee, and talk quietly over this matter which we are now arranging. How
slight a favor, then, for one friend to do another, will seem this that
I seek of thee."
Redclyffe smiled to himself, as he thus gave expression to what he
really half fancied were Lord Braithwaite's feelings and purposes
towards him, and he felt them in the kindness and sweetness of his
demeanor, and his evident wish to make him happy, combined with his own
subtile suspicion of some design with which he had been invited here,
or which had grown up since he came.
Whoever has read Italian history must have seen such instances of this
poisoning without malice or personal ill-feeling.
His own pleasant, companionable, perhaps noble traits and qualities,
may have made a favorable impression on Lord Braithwaite, and perhaps
he regretted the necessity of acting as he was about to do, but could
not therefore weakly relinquish his deliberately formed design. And, on
his part, Redclyffe bore no malice towards Lord Braithwaite, but felt
really a kindly interest in him, and could he have made him happy at
any less cost than his own life, or dearest interests, would perhaps
have been glad to do so. He sometimes felt inclined to remonstrate with
him in a friendly way; to tell him that his intended course was not
likely to lead to a good result; that they had better try to arrange
the matter on some other basis, and perhaps he would not find the
American so unreasonable as he supposed.
