
All this, it will be understood, were the mere dreamy suppositions of
Redclyffe, in the idleness and languor of the old mansion, letting his
mind run at will, and following it into dim caves, whither it tended.
He did not actually believe anything of all this; unless it be a
lawyer, or a policeman, or some very vulgar natural order of mind, no
man really suspects another of crime. It is the hardest thing in the
world for a noble nature--the hardest and the most shocking--to be
convinced that a fellow-being is going to do a wrong thing, and the
consciousness of one's own inviolability renders it still more
difficult to believe that one's self is to be the object of the wrong.
What he had been fancying looked to him like a romance. The strange
part of the matter was, what suggested such a romance in regard to his
kind and hospitable host, who seemed to exercise the hospitality of
England with a kind of refinement and pleasant piquancy that came from
his Italian mixture of blood? Was there no spiritual whisper here?
So the time wore on; and Redclyffe began to be sensible that he must
soon decide upon the course that he was to take; for his diplomatic
position waited for him, and he could not loiter many days more away in
this half delicious, half painful reverie and quiet in the midst of his
struggling life. He was yet as undetermined what to do as ever; or, if
we may come down to the truth, he was perhaps loath to acknowledge to
himself the determination that he had actually formed.
One day, at dinner, which now came on after candle-light, he and Lord
Braithwaite sat together at table, as usual, while Omskirk waited at
the sideboard. It was a wild, gusty night, in which an autumnal breeze
of later autumn seemed to have gone astray, and come into September
intrusively. The two friends--for such we may call them--had spent a
pleasant day together, wandering in the grounds, looking at the old
house at all points, going to the church, and examining the cross-
legged stone statues; they had ridden, too, and taken a great deal of
healthful exercise, and had now that pleasant sense of just weariness
enough which it is the boon of the climate of England to incite and
permit men to take. Redclyffe was in one of his most genial moods, and
Lord Braithwaite seemed to be the same; so kindly they were both
disposed to one another, that the American felt that he might not
longer refrain from giving his friend some light upon the character in
which he appeared, or in which, at least, he had it at his option to
appear. Lord Braithwaite might or might not know it already; but at all
events it was his duty to tell him, or to take his leave, having thus
far neither gained nor sought anything from their connection which
would tend to forward his pursuit--should he decide to undertake it.
When the cheerful fire, the rare wine, and the good fare had put them
both into a good physical state, Redclyffe said to Lord Braithwaite,--
"There is a matter upon which I have been some time intending to speak
to you."
Braithwaite nodded.
"A subject," continued he, "of interest to both of us. Has it ever
occurred to you, from the identity of name, that I may be really, what
we have jokingly assumed me to be,--a relation?"
"It has," said Lord Braithwaite, readily enough. "The family would be
proud to acknowledge such a kinsman, whose abilities and political rank
would add a public lustre that it has long wanted."
Redclyffe bowed and smiled.
"You know, I suppose, the annals of your house," he continued, "and
have heard how, two centuries ago, or somewhat less, there was an
ancestor who mysteriously disappeared. He was never seen again. There
were tales of private murder, out of which a hundred legends have come
down to these days, as I have myself found, though most of them in so
strange a shape that I should hardly know them, had I not myself a
clue."
"I have heard some of these legends," said Lord Braithwaite.
"But did you ever hear, among them," asked Redclyffe, "that the lost
ancestor did not really die,--was not murdered,--but lived long, though
in another hemisphere,--lived long, and left heirs behind him?"
