
"There is such a legend," said Lord Braithwaite.
"Left posterity," continued Redclyffe,--"a representative of whom is
alive at this day."
"That I have not known, though I might conjecture something like it,"
said Braithwaite.
The coolness with which he took this perplexed Redclyffe. He resolved
to make trial at once whether it were possible to move him.
"And I have reason to believe," he added, "that that representative is
myself."
"Should that prove to be the case, you are welcome back to your own,"
said Lord Braithwaite, quietly. "It will be a very remarkable case, if
the proofs for two hundred years, or thereabouts, can be so distinctly
made out as to nullify the claim of one whose descent is undoubted. Yet
it is certainly not impossible. I suppose it would hardly be fair in me
to ask what are your proofs, and whether I may see them."
"The documents are in the hands of my agents in London," replied
Redclyffe; "and seem to be ample, among them being a certified
genealogy from the first emigrant downward, without a break. A
declaration of two men of note among the first settlers, certifying
that they knew the first emigrant, under a change of name, to be the
eldest son of the house of Braithwaite; full proofs, at least on that
head."
"You are a lawyer, I believe," said Braithwaite, "and know better than
I what may be necessary to prove your claim. I will frankly own to you,
that I have heard, long ago,--as long as when my connection with this
hereditary property first began,--that there was supposed to be an heir
extant for a long course of years, and that there, was no proof that
that main line of the descent had ever become extinct. If these things
had come fairly before me, and been represented to me with whatever
force belongs to them, before my accession to the estate,--these and
other facts which I have since become acquainted with,--I might have
deliberated on the expediency of coming to such a doubtful possession.
The property, I assure you, is not so desirable that, taking all things
into consideration, it has much increased my happiness. But, now, here
I am, having paid a price in a certain way,--which you will understand,
if you ever come into the property,--a price of a nature that cannot
possibly be refunded. It can hardly be presumed that I shall see your
right a moment sooner than you make it manifest by law."
"I neither expect nor wish it," replied Redclyffe, "nor, to speak
frankly, am I quite sure that you will ever have occasion to defend
your title, or to question mine. When I came hither, to be your guest,
it was almost with the settled purpose never to mention my proofs, nor
to seek to make them manifest. That purpose is not, I may say, yet
relinquished."
"Yet I am to infer from your words that it is shaken?" said
Braithwaite. "You find the estate, then, so delightful,--this life of
the old manor-house so exquisitely agreeable,--this air so cheering,--
this moral atmosphere so invigorating,--that your scruples are about
coming to an end. You think this life of an Englishman, this fair
prospect of a title, so irresistibly enticing as to be worth more than
your claim, in behalf of your American birthright, to a possible
Presidency."
There was a sort of sneer in this, which Redclyffe did not well know
how to understand; and there was a look on Braithwaite's face, as he
said it, that made him think of a condemned soul, who should be dressed
in magnificent robes, and surrounded with the mockery of state,
splendor, and happiness, who, if he should be congratulated on his
fortunate and blissful situation, would probably wear just such a look,
and speak in just that tone. He looked a moment in Braithwaite's face.
"No," he replied. "I do not think that there is much happiness in it. A
brighter, healthier, more useful, far more satisfactory, though
tumultuous life would await me in my own country. But there is about
this place a strange, deep, sad, brooding interest, which possesses me,
and draws me to it, and will not let me go. I feel as if, in spite of
myself and my most earnest efforts, I were fascinated by something in
the spot, and must needs linger here, and make it my home if I can."
