
"You shall be welcome; the old hereditary chair will be filled at
last," said Braithwaite, pointing to the vacant chair. "Come, we will
drink to you in a cup of welcome. Take the old chair now."
In half-frolic Redclyffe took the chair.
He called to Omskirk to bring a bottle of a particularly exquisite
Italian wine, known only to the most deeply skilled in the vintages of
that country, and which, he said, was oftener heard of than seen,--
oftener seen than tasted. Omskirk put it on the table in its original
glass, and Braithwaite filled Redclyffe's glass and his own, and raised
the latter to his lips, with a frank expression of his mobile
countenance.
"May you have a secure possession of your estate," said he, "and live
long in the midst of your possessions. To me, on the whole, it seems
better than your American prospects."
Redclyffe thanked him, and drank off the glass of wine, which was not
very much to his taste; as new varieties of wine are apt not to be. All
the conversation that had passed had been in a free, careless sort of
way, without apparently much earnestness in it; for they were both men
who knew how to keep their more serious parts within them. But
Redclyffe was glad that the explanation was over, and that he might now
remain at Braithwaite's table, under his roof, without that uneasy
feeling of treachery which, whether rightly or not, had haunted him
hitherto. He felt joyous, and stretched his hand out for the bottle
which Braithwaite kept near himself, instead of passing it.
"You do not yourself do justice to your own favorite wine," observed
Redclyffe, seeing his host's full glass standing before him.
"I have filled again," said Braithwaite, carelessly; "but I know not
that I shall venture to drink a second glass. It is a wine that does
not bear mixture with other vintages, though of most genial and
admirable qualities when taken by itself. Drink your own, however, for
it will be a rare occasion indeed that would induce me to offer you
another bottle of this rare stock."
Redclyffe sipped his second glass, endeavoring to find out what was
this subtile and peculiar flavor that hid itself so, and yet seemed on
the point of revealing itself. It had, he thought, a singular effect
upon his faculties, quickening and making them active, and causing him
to feel as if he were on the point of penetrating rare mysteries, such
as men's thoughts are always hovering round, and always returning from.
Some strange, vast, sombre, mysterious truth, which he seemed to have
searched for long, appeared to be on the point of being revealed to
him; a sense of something to come; something to happen that had been
waiting long, long to happen; an opening of doors, a drawing away of
veils; a lifting of heavy, magnificent curtains, whose dark folds hung
before a spectacle of awe;--it was like the verge of the grave. Whether
it was the exquisite wine of Braithwaite, or whatever it might be, the
American felt a strange influence upon him, as if he were passing
through the gates of eternity, and finding on the other side the
revelation of some secret that had greatly perplexed him on this side.
He thought that Braithwaite's face assumed a strange, subtile smile,--
not malicious, yet crafty, triumphant, and at the same time terribly
sad, and with that perception his senses, his life, welled away; and
left him in the deep ancestral chair at the board of Braithwaite.
CHAPTER XXIV.
