
"Mr. Warden," said the old man solemnly, "let me pray you not to give
him up so easily. Come with me into the presence of Lord Braithwaite."
The Warden made some objections; but the pensioner's manner was so
earnest, that he soon consented; knowing that the strangeness of his
sudden return might well enough be put upon the eccentricities of the
pensioner, especially as he was so well known to Lord Braithwaite. He
accordingly again rang at the door, which being opened by the same
stolid footman, the Warden desired him to announce to Lord Braithwaite
that the Warden and a pensioner desired to see him. He soon returned,
with a request that they would walk in, and ushered them again to the
library, where they found the master of the house in conversation with
Omskirk at one end of the apartment,--a whispered conversation, which
detained him a moment, after their arrival. The Warden fancied that he
saw in old Omskirk's countenance a shade more of that mysterious horror
which made him such a bugbear to children; but when Braithwaite turned
from him and approached his visitor, there was no trace of any
disturbance, beyond a natural surprise to see his good friend the
Warden so soon after his taking leave. [Endnote: 2.]
"I see you are surprised," said the latter. "But you must lay the
blame, if any, on our good old friend here, who, for some reason, best
known to himself, insisted on having my company here."
Braithwaite looked to the old pensioner, with a questioning look, as if
good-humoredly (yet not as if he cared much about it) asking for an
explanation. As Omskirk was about leaving the room, having remained
till this time, with that nervous look which distinguished him gazing
towards the party, the pensioner made him a sign, which he obeyed as if
compelled to do so.
"Well, my friend," said the Warden, somewhat impatient of the aspect in
which he himself appeared, "I beg of you, explain at once to Lord
Braithwaite why you have brought me back in this strange way."
"It is," said the pensioner quietly, "that in your presence I request
him to allow me to see Mr. Redclyffe."
"Why, my friend," said Braithwaite, "how can I show you a man who has
left my house, and whom in the chances of this life, I am not very
likely to see again, though hospitably desirous of so doing?"
Here ensued a laughing sort of colloquy between the Warden and
Braithwaite, in which the former jocosely excused himself for having
yielded to the whim of the pensioner, and returned with him on an
errand which he well knew to be futile.
"I have long been aware," he said apart, in a confidential way, "of
something a little awry in our old friend's mental system. You will
excuse him, and me for humoring him."
"Of course, of course," said Braithwaite, in the same tone. "I shall
not be moved by anything the old fellow can say."
The old pensioner, meanwhile, had been as it were heating up, and
gathering himself into a mood of energy which those who saw him had
never before witnessed in his usually quiet person. He seemed somehow
to grow taller and larger, more impressive. At length, fixing his eyes
on Lord Braithwaite, he spoke again.
"Dark, murderous man," exclaimed he. "Your course has not been
unwatched; the secrets of this mansion are not unknown. For two
centuries back, they have been better known to them who dwell afar off
than to those resident within the mansion. The foot that made the
Bloody Footstep has returned from its long wanderings, and it passes
on, straight as destiny,--sure as an avenging Providence,--to the
punishment and destruction of those who incur retribution."
