
"Here is an odd kind of tragedy," said Lord Braithwaite, with a
scornful smile. "Come, my old friend, lay aside this vein and talk
sense."
"Not thus do you escape your penalty, hardened and crafty one!"
exclaimed the pensioner. "I demand of you, before this worthy Warden,
access to the secret ways of this mansion, of which thou dost unjustly
retain possession. I shall disclose what for centuries has remained
hidden,--the ghastly secrets that this house hides."
"Humor him," whispered the Warden, "and hereafter I will take care that
the exuberance of our old friend shall be duly restrained. He shall not
trouble you again."
Lord Braithwaite, to say the truth, appeared a little flabbergasted and
disturbed by these latter expressions of the old gentleman. He
hesitated, turned pale; but at last, recovering his momentary confusion
and irresolution, he replied, with apparent carelessness:--
"Go wherever you will, old gentleman. The house is open to you for this
time. If ever you have another opportunity to disturb it, the fault
will be mine."
"Follow, sir," said the pensioner, turning to the Warden; "follow,
maiden![Endnote: 3] Now shall a great mystery begin to be revealed."
So saying, he led the way before them, passing out of the hall, not by
the doorway, but through one of the oaken panels of the wall, which
admitted the party into a passage which seemed to pass through the
thickness of the wall, and was lighted by interstices through which
shone gleams of light. This led them into what looked like a little
vestibule, or circular room, which the Warden, though deeming himself
many years familiar with the old house, had never seen before, any more
than the passage which led to it. To his surprise, this room was not
vacant, for in it sat, in a large old chair, Omskirk, like a toad in
its hole, like some wild, fearful creature in its den, and it was now
partly understood how this man had the possibility of suddenly
disappearing, so inscrutably, and so in a moment; and, when all quest
for him was given up, of as suddenly appearing again.
"Ha!" said old Omskirk, slowly rising, as at the approach of some event
that he had long expected. "Is he coming at last?"
"Poor victim of another's iniquity," said the pensioner. "Thy release
approaches. Rejoice!"
The old man arose with a sort of trepidation and solemn joy intermixed
in his manner, and bowed reverently, as if there were in what he heard
more than other ears could understand in it.
"Yes; I have waited long," replied he. "Welcome; if my release is
come."
"Well," said Lord Braithwaite, scornfully. "This secret retreat of my
house is known to many. It was the priest's secret chamber when it was
dangerous to be of the old and true religion, here in England. There is
no longer any use in concealing this place; and the Warden, or any man,
might have seen it, or any of the curiosities of the old hereditary
house, if desirous so to do."
