
"Aha! son of Belial!" quoth the pensioner. "And this, too!"
He took three pieces from a certain point of the wall, which he seemed
to know, and stooped to press upon the floor. The Warden looked at Lord
Braithwaite, and saw that he had grown deadly pale. What his change of
cheer might bode, he could not guess; but, at the pressure of the old
pensioner's finger, the floor, or a segment of it, rose like the lid of
a box, and discovered a small darksome pair of stairs, within which
burned a lamp, lighting it downward, like the steps that descend into a
sepulchre.
"Follow," said he, to those who looked on, wondering.
And he began to descend. Lord Braithwaite saw him disappear, then
frantically followed, the Warden next, and old Omskirk took his place
in the rear, like a man following his inevitable destiny. At the bottom
of a winding descent, that seemed deep and remote, and far within, they
came to a door, which the pensioner pressed with a spring; and, passing
through the space that disclosed itself, the whole party followed, and
found themselves in a small, gloomy room. On one side of it was a
couch, on which sat Redclyffe; face to face with him was a white-haired
figure in a chair.
"You are come!" said Redclyffe, solemnly. "But too late!"
"And yonder is the coffer," said the pensioner. "Open but that; and our
quest is ended."
"That, if I mistake not, I can do," said Redclyffe.
He drew forth--what he had kept all this time, as something that might
yet reveal to him the mystery of his birth--the silver key that had
been found by the grave in far New England; and applying it to the
lock, he slowly turned it on the hinges, that had not been turned for
two hundred years. All--even Lord Braithwaite, guilty and shame-
stricken as he felt--pressed forward to look upon what was about to be
disclosed. What were the wondrous contents? The entire, mysterious
coffer was full of golden ringlets, abundant, clustering through the
whole coffer, and living with elasticity, so as immediately, as it
were, to flow over the sides of the coffer, and rise in large abundance
from the long compression. Into this--by a miracle of natural
production which was known likewise in other cases--into this had been
resolved the whole bodily substance of that fair and unfortunate being,
known so long in the legends of the family as the Beauty of the Golden
Locks. As the pensioner looked at this strange sight,--the lustre of
the precious and miraculous hair gleaming and glistening, and seeming
to add light to the gloomy room,--he took from his breast pocket
another lock of hair, in a locket, and compared it, before their faces,
with that which brimmed over from the coffer.
"It is the same!" said he.
"And who are you that know it?" asked Redclyffe, surprised.
"He whose ancestors taught him the secret,--who has had it handed down
to him these two centuries, and now only with regret yields to the
necessity of making it known."
"You are the heir!" said Redclyffe.
