
"Seize the old scoundrel! the villain! the Tory! the dastardly
Englishman! Hang him in the web of his own devilish spider,--'t is long
enough! Tar and feather him! tar and feather him!"
It was certainly one of those crises that show a man how few real
friends he has, and the tendency of mankind to stand aside, at least,
and let a poor devil fight his own troubles, if not assist them in
their attack. Here you might have seen a brother physician of the grim
Doctor's greatly tickled at his plight: or a decorous, powdered,
ruffle-shirted dignitary, one of the weighty men of the town, standing
at a neighbor's corner to see what would come of it.
"He is not a respectable man, I understand, this Grimshawe,--a quack,
intemperate, always in these scuffles: let him get out as he may!"
And then comes a deacon of one of the churches, and several church-
members, who, hearing a noise, set out gravely and decorously to see
what was going forward in a Christian community.
"Ah! it is that irreligious and profane Grimshawe, who never goes to
meeting. We wash our hands of him!"
And one of the selectmen said,--
"Surely this common brawler ought not to have the care of these nice,
sweet children; something must be done about it; and when the man is
sober, he must be talked to!"
Alas! it is a hard case with a man who lives upon his own bottom and
responsibility, making himself no allies, sewing himself on to nobody's
skirts, insulating himself,--hard, when his trouble comes; and so poor
Doctor Grimshawe was like to find it.
He had succeeded by dint of good skill, and some previous practice at
quarter-staff, in keeping his assailants at bay, though not without
some danger on his own part; but their number, their fierceness, and
the more skilled assault of some among them must almost immediately
have been successful, when the Doctor's part was strengthened by an
unexpected ally. This was a person [Endnote: 2] of tall, slight figure,
who, without lifting his hands to take part in the conflict, thrust
himself before the Doctor, and turned towards the assailants, crying,--
"Christian men, what would you do? Peace,--peace!"
His so well intended exhortation took effect, indeed, in a certain way,
but not precisely as might have been wished: for a blow, aimed at
Doctor Grim, took effect on the head of this man, who seemed to have no
sort of skill or alacrity at defending himself, any more than at making
an assault; for he never lifted his hands, but took the blow as
unresistingly as if it had been kindly meant, and it levelled him
senseless on the ground.
Had the mob really been enraged for any strenuous cause, this incident
would have operated merely as a preliminary whet to stimulate them to
further bloodshed. But, as they were mostly actuated only by a natural
desire for mischief, they were about as well satisfied with what had
been done as if the Doctor himself were the victim. And besides, the
fathers and respectabilities of the town, who had seen this mishap from
afar, now began to put forward, crying out, "Keep the peace! keep the
peace! A riot! a riot!" and other such cries as suited the emergency;
and the crowd vanished more speedily than it had congregated, leaving
the Doctor and the two children alone beside the fallen victim of a
quarrel not his own. Not to dwell too long on this incident, the
Doctor, laying hold of the last of his enemies, after the rest had
taken to their heels, ordered him sternly to stay and help him bear the
man, whom he had helped to murder, to his house.
