
'Mamma, I should be delighted if you think they COULD be sold; and
for anything worth while.'
'It's worth while trying, however, my dear:  do you procure the
drawings, and I'll endeavour to find a purchaser.'
'I wish _I_ could do something,' said I.
'You, Agnes! well, who knows?  You draw pretty well, too:  if you
choose some simple piece for your subject, I daresay you will be
able to produce something we shall all be proud to exhibit.'
'But I have another scheme in my head, mamma, and have had long,
only I did not like to mention it.'
'Indeed! pray tell us what it is.'
'I should like to be a governess.'
My mother uttered an exclamation of surprise, and laughed.  My
sister dropped her work in astonishment, exclaiming, 'YOU a
governess, Agnes!  What can you be dreaming of?'
'Well!  I don't see anything so VERY extraordinary in it.  I do not
pretend to be able to instruct great girls; but surely I could
teach little ones:  and I should like it so much:  I am so fond of
children.  Do let me, mamma!'
'But, my love, you have not learned to take care of YOURSELF yet:
and young children require more judgment and experience to manage
than elder ones.'
'But, mamma, I am above eighteen, and quite able to take care of
myself, and others too.  You do not know half the wisdom and
prudence I possess, because I have never been tried.'
'Only think,' said Mary, 'what would you do in a house full of
strangers, without me or mamma to speak and act for you--with a
parcel of children, besides yourself, to attend to; and no one to
look to for advice?  You would not even know what clothes to put
on.'
'You think, because I always do as you bid me, I have no judgment
of my own:  but only try me--that is all I ask--and you shall see
what I can do.'
At that moment my father entered and the subject of our discussion
was explained to him.
'What, my little Agnes a governess!' cried he, and, in spite of his
dejection, he laughed at the idea.
'Yes, papa, don't YOU say anything against it:  I should like it so
much; and I am sure I could manage delightfully.'
'But, my darling, we could not spare you.'  And a tear glistened in
his eye as he added--'No, no! afflicted as we are, surely we are
not brought to that pass yet.'
'Oh, no!' said my mother.  'There is no necessity whatever for such
a step; it is merely a whim of her own.  So you must hold your
tongue, you naughty girl; for, though you are so ready to leave us,
you know very well we cannot part with YOU.'
I was silenced for that day, and for many succeeding ones; but
still I did not wholly relinquish my darling scheme.  Mary got her
drawing materials, and steadily set to work.  I got mine too; but
while I drew, I thought of other things.  How delightful it would
be to be a governess!  To go out into the world; to enter upon a
new life; to act for myself; to exercise my unused faculties; to
try my unknown powers; to earn my own maintenance, and something to
comfort and help my father, mother, and sister, besides exonerating
them from the provision of my food and clothing; to show papa what
his little Agnes could do; to convince mamma and Mary that I was
not quite the helpless, thoughtless being they supposed.  And then,
how charming to be entrusted with the care and education of
children!  Whatever others said, I felt I was fully competent to
the task:  the clear remembrance of my own thoughts in early
childhood would be a surer guide than the instructions of the most
mature adviser.  I had but to turn from my little pupils to myself
at their age, and I should know, at once, how to win their
confidence and affections:  how to waken the contrition of the
erring; how to embolden the timid and console the afflicted; how to
make Virtue practicable, Instruction desirable, and Religion lovely
and comprehensible.
- Delightful task!
To teach the young idea how to shoot!
To train the tender plants, and watch their buds unfolding day by
day!
Influenced by so many inducements, I determined still to persevere;
though the fear of displeasing my mother, or distressing my
father's feelings, prevented me from resuming the subject for
several days.  At length, again, I mentioned it to my mother in
private; and, with some difficulty, got her to promise to assist me
with her endeavours.  My father's reluctant consent was next
obtained, and then, though Mary still sighed her disapproval, my
dear, kind mother began to look out for a situation for me.  She
wrote to my father's relations, and consulted the newspaper
advertisements--her own relations she had long dropped all
communication with:  a formal interchange of occasional letters was
all she had ever had since her marriage, and she would not at any
time have applied to them in a case of this nature.  But so long
and so entire had been my parents' seclusion from the world, that
many weeks elapsed before a suitable situation could be procured.
At last, to my great joy, it was decreed that I should take charge
of the young family of a certain Mrs. Bloomfield; whom my kind,
prim aunt Grey had known in her youth, and asserted to be a very
nice woman.  Her husband was a retired tradesman, who had realized
a very comfortable fortune; but could not be prevailed upon to give
a greater salary than twenty-five pounds to the instructress of his
children.  I, however, was glad to accept this, rather than refuse
the situation--which my parents were inclined to think the better
plan.
But some weeks more were yet to be devoted to preparation.  How
long, how tedious those weeks appeared to me!  Yet they were happy
ones in the main--full of bright hopes and ardent expectations.
With what peculiar pleasure I assisted at the making of my new
clothes, and, subsequently, the packing of my trunks!  But there
was a feeling of bitterness mingling with the latter occupation
too; and when it was done--when all was ready for my departure on
the morrow, and the last night at home approached--a sudden anguish
seemed to swell my heart.  My dear friends looked so sad, and spoke
so very kindly, that I could scarcely keep my eyes from
overflowing:  but I still affected to be gay.  I had taken my last
ramble with Mary on the moors, my last walk in the garden, and
round the house; I had fed, with her, our pet pigeons for the last
time--the pretty creatures that we had tamed to peck their food
from our hands:  I had given a farewell stroke to all their silky
backs as they crowded in my lap.  I had tenderly kissed my own
peculiar favourites, the pair of snow-white fantails; I had played
my last tune on the old familiar piano, and sung my last song to
papa:  not the last, I hoped, but the last for what appeared to me
a very long time.  And, perhaps, when I did these things again it
would be with different feelings:  circumstances might be changed,
and this house might never be my settled home again.  My dear
little friend, the kitten, would certainly be changed:  she was
already growing a fine cat; and when I returned, even for a hasty
visit at Christmas, would, most likely, have forgotten both her
playmate and her merry pranks.  I had romped with her for the last
time; and when I stroked her soft bright fur, while she lay purring
herself to sleep in my lap, it was with a feeling of sadness I
could not easily disguise.  Then at bed-time, when I retired with
Mary to our quiet little chamber, where already my drawers were
cleared out and my share of the bookcase was empty--and where,
hereafter, she would have to sleep alone, in dreary solitude, as
she expressed it--my heart sank more than ever:  I felt as if I had
been selfish and wrong to persist in leaving her; and when I knelt
once more beside our little bed, I prayed for a blessing on her and
on my parents more fervently than ever I had done before.  To
conceal my emotion, I buried my face in my hands, and they were
presently bathed in tears.  I perceived, on rising, that she had
been crying too:  but neither of us spoke; and in silence we betook
ourselves to our repose, creeping more closely together from the
consciousness that we were to part so soon.
