
CHAPTER VI--THE PARSONAGE AGAIN
For a few months I remained peaceably at home, in the quiet
enjoyment of liberty and rest, and genuine friendship, from all of
which I had fasted so long; and in the earnest prosecution of my
studies, to recover what I had lost during my stay at Wellwood
House, and to lay in new stores for future use.  My father's health
was still very infirm, but not materially worse than when I last
saw him; and I was glad I had it in my power to cheer him by my
return, and to amuse him with singing his favourite songs.
No one triumphed over my failure, or said I had better have taken
his or her advice, and quietly stayed at home.  All were glad to
have me back again, and lavished more kindness than ever upon me,
to make up for the sufferings I had undergone; but not one would
touch a shilling of what I had so cheerfully earned and so
carefully saved, in the hope of sharing it with them.  By dint of
pinching here, and scraping there, our debts were already nearly
paid.  Mary had had good success with her drawings; but our father
had insisted upon HER likewise keeping all the produce of her
industry to herself.  All we could spare from the supply of our
humble wardrobe and our little casual expenses, he directed us to
put into the savings'-bank; saying, we knew not how soon we might
be dependent on that alone for support:  for he felt he had not
long to be with us, and what would become of our mother and us when
he was gone, God only knew!
Dear papa! if he had troubled himself less about the afflictions
that threatened us in case of his death, I am convinced that
dreaded event would not have taken place so soon.  My mother would
never suffer him to ponder on the subject if she could help it.
'Oh, Richard!' exclaimed she, on one occasion, 'if you would but
dismiss such gloomy subjects from your mind, you would live as long
as any of us; at least you would live to see the girls married, and
yourself a happy grandfather, with a canty old dame for your
companion.'
My mother laughed, and so did my father:  but his laugh soon
perished in a dreary sigh.
'THEY married--poor penniless things!' said he; 'who will take them
I wonder!'
'Why, nobody shall that isn't thankful for them.  Wasn't I
penniless when you took me? and you PRETENDED, at least, to be
vastly pleased with your acquisition.  But it's no matter whether
they get married or not:  we can devise a thousand honest ways of
making a livelihood.  And I wonder, Richard, you can think of
bothering your head about our POVERTY in case of your death; as if
THAT would be anything compared with the calamity of losing you--an
affliction that you well know would swallow up all others, and
which you ought to do your utmost to preserve us from:  and there
is nothing like a cheerful mind for keeping the body in health.'
'I know, Alice, it is wrong to keep repining as I do, but I cannot
help it:  you must bear with me.'
'I WON'T bear with you, if I can alter you,' replied my mother:
but the harshness of her words was undone by the earnest affection
of her tone and pleasant smile, that made my father smile again,
less sadly and less transiently than was his wont.
'Mamma,' said I, as soon as I could find an opportunity of speaking
with her alone, 'my money is but little, and cannot last long; if I
could increase it, it would lessen papa's anxiety, on one subject
at least.  I cannot draw like Mary, and so the best thing I could
do would be to look out for another situation.'
'And so you would actually try again, Agnes?'
'Decidedly, I would.'
'Why, my dear, I should have thought you had had enough of it.'
'I know,' said I, 'everybody is not like Mr. and Mrs. Bloomfield--'
'Some are worse,' interrupted my mother.
'But not many, I think,' replied I, 'and I'm sure all children are
not like theirs; for I and Mary were not:  we always did as you bid
us, didn't we?'
'Generally:  but then, I did not spoil you; and you were not
perfect angels after all:  Mary had a fund of quiet obstinacy, and
you were somewhat faulty in regard to temper; but you were very
good children on the whole.'
'I know I was sulky sometimes, and I should have been glad to see
these children sulky sometimes too; for then I could have
understood them:  but they never were, for they COULD not be
offended, nor hurt, nor ashamed:  they could not be unhappy in any
way, except when they were in a passion.'
'Well, if they COULD not, it was not their fault:  you cannot
expect stone to be as pliable as clay.'
'No, but still it is very unpleasant to live with such
unimpressible, incomprehensible creatures.  You cannot love them;
and if you could, your love would be utterly thrown away:  they
could neither return it, nor value, nor understand it.  But,
however, even if I should stumble on such a family again, which is
quite unlikely, I have all this experience to begin with, and I
should manage better another time; and the end and aim of this
preamble is, let me try again.'
'Well, my girl, you are not easily discouraged, I see:  I am glad
of that.  But, let me tell you, you are a good deal paler and
thinner than when you first left home; and we cannot have you
undermining your health to hoard up money either for yourself or
others.'
