
'Mary tells me I am changed too; and I don't much wonder at it, for
I was in a constant state of agitation and anxiety all day long:
but next time I am determined to take things coolly.'
After some further discussion, my mother promised once more to
assist me, provided I would wait and be patient; and I left her to
broach the matter to my father, when and how she deemed it most
advisable:  never doubting her ability to obtain his consent.
Meantime, I searched, with great interest, the advertising columns
of the newspapers, and wrote answers to every 'Wanted a Governess'
that appeared at all eligible; but all my letters, as well as the
replies, when I got any, were dutifully shown to my mother; and
she, to my chagrin, made me reject the situations one after
another:  these were low people, these were too exacting in their
demands, and these too niggardly in their remuneration.
'Your talents are not such as every poor clergyman's daughter
possesses, Agnes,' she would say, 'and you must not throw them
away.  Remember, you promised to be patient:  there is no need of
hurry:  you have plenty of time before you, and may have many
chances yet.'
At length, she advised me to put an advertisement, myself, in the
paper, stating my qualifications, &c.
'Music, singing, drawing, French, Latin, and German,' said she,
'are no mean assemblage:  many will be glad to have so much in one
instructor; and this time, you shall try your fortune in a somewhat
higher family in that of some genuine, thoroughbred gentleman; for
such are far more likely to treat you with proper respect and
consideration than those purse-proud tradespeople and arrogant
upstarts.  I have known several among the higher ranks who treated
their governesses quite as one of the family; though some, I allow,
are as insolent and exacting as any one else can be:  for there are
bad and good in all classes.'
The advertisement was quickly written and despatched.  Of the two
parties who answered it, but one would consent to give me fifty
pounds, the sum my mother bade me name as the salary I should
require; and here, I hesitated about engaging myself, as I feared
the children would be too old, and their parents would require some
one more showy, or more experienced, if not more accomplished than
I.  But my mother dissuaded me from declining it on that account:
I should do vastly well, she said, if I would only throw aside my
diffidence, and acquire a little more confidence in myself.  I was
just to give a plain, true statement of my acquirements and
qualifications, and name what stipulations I chose to make, and
then await the result.  The only stipulation I ventured to propose,
was that I might be allowed two months' holidays during the year to
visit my friends, at Midsummer and Christmas.  The unknown lady, in
her reply, made no objection to this, and stated that, as to my
acquirements, she had no doubt I should be able to give
satisfaction; but in the engagement of governesses she considered
those things as but subordinate points; as being situated in the
neighbourhood of O---, she could get masters to supply any
deficiencies in that respect:  but, in her opinion, next to
unimpeachable morality, a mild and cheerful temper and obliging
disposition were the most essential requisities.
My mother did not relish this at all, and now made many objections
to my accepting the situation; in which my sister warmly supported
her:  but, unwilling to be balked again, I overruled them all; and,
having first obtained the consent of my father (who had, a short
time previously, been apprised of these transactions), I wrote a
most obliging epistle to my unknown correspondent, and, finally,
the bargain was concluded.
It was decreed that on the last day of January I was to enter upon
my new office as governess in the family of Mr. Murray, of Horton
Lodge, near O---, about seventy miles from our village:  a
formidable distance to me, as I had never been above twenty miles
from home in all the course of my twenty years' sojourn on earth;
and as, moreover, every individual in that family and in the
neighbourhood was utterly unknown to myself and all my
acquaintances.  But this rendered it only the more piquant to me.
I had now, in some measure, got rid of the mauvaise honte that had
formerly oppressed me so much; there was a pleasing excitement in
the idea of entering these unknown regions, and making my way alone
among its strange inhabitants.  I now flattered myself I was going
to see something in the world:  Mr. Murray's residence was near a
large town, and not in a manufacturing district, where the people
had nothing to do but to make money; his rank from what I could
gather, appeared to be higher than that of Mr. Bloomfield; and,
doubtless, he was one of those genuine thoroughbred gentry my
mother spoke of, who would treat his governess with due
consideration as a respectable well-educated lady, the instructor
and guide of his children, and not a mere upper servant.  Then, my
pupils being older, would be more rational, more teachable, and
less troublesome than the last; they would be less confined to the
schoolroom, and not require that constant labour and incessant
watching; and, finally, bright visions mingled with my hopes, with
which the care of children and the mere duties of a governess had
little or nothing to do.  Thus, the reader will see that I had no
claim to be regarded as a martyr to filial piety, going forth to
sacrifice peace and liberty for the sole purpose of laying up
stores for the comfort and support of my parents:  though certainly
the comfort of my father, and the future support of my mother, had
a large share in my calculations; and fifty pounds appeared to me
no ordinary sum.  I must have decent clothes becoming my station; I
must, it seemed, put out my washing, and also pay for my four
annual journeys between Horton Lodge and home; but with strict
attention to economy, surely twenty pounds, or little more, would
cover those expenses, and then there would be thirty for the bank,
or little less:  what a valuable addition to our stock!  Oh, I must
struggle to keep this situation, whatever it might be! both for my
own honour among my friends and for the solid services I might
render them by my continuance there.
CHAPTER VII--HORTON LODGE
The 31st of January was a wild, tempestuous day:  there was a
strong north wind, with a continual storm of snow drifting on the
ground and whirling through the air.  My friends would have had me
delay my departure, but fearful of prejudicing my employers against
me by such want of punctuality at the commencement of my
undertaking, I persisted in keeping the appointment.
I will not inflict upon my readers an account of my leaving home on
that dark winter morning:  the fond farewells, the long, long
journey to O---, the solitary waitings in inns for coaches or
trains--for there were some railways then--and, finally, the
meeting at O--- with Mr. Murray's servant, who had been sent with
the phaeton to drive me from thence to Horton Lodge.  I will just
state that the heavy snow had thrown such impediments in the way of
both horses and steam-engines, that it was dark some hours before I
reached my journey's end, and that a most bewildering storm came on
at last, which made the few miles' space between O--- and Horton
Lodge a long and formidable passage.  I sat resigned, with the
cold, sharp snow drifting through my veil and filling my lap,
seeing nothing, and wondering how the unfortunate horse and driver
could make their way even as well as they did; and indeed it was
but a toilsome, creeping style of progression, to say the best of
it.  At length we paused; and, at the call of the driver, someone
unlatched and rolled back upon their creaking hinges what appeared
to be the park gates.  Then we proceeded along a smoother road,
whence, occasionally, I perceived some huge, hoary mass gleaming
through the darkness, which I took to be a portion of a snow-clad
tree.  After a considerable time we paused again, before the
stately portico of a large house with long windows descending to
the ground.
I rose with some difficulty from under the superincumbent
snowdrift, and alighted from the carriage, expecting that a kind
and hospitable reception would indemnify me for the toils and
hardships of the day.  A gentleman person in black opened the door,
and admitted me into a spacious hall, lighted by an amber-coloured
lamp suspended from the ceiling; he led me through this, along a
passage, and opening the door of a back room, told me that was the
schoolroom.  I entered, and found two young ladies and two young
gentlemen--my future pupils, I supposed.  After a formal greeting,
the elder girl, who was trifling over a piece of canvas and a
basket of German wools, asked if I should like to go upstairs.  I
replied in the affirmative, of course.
'Matilda, take a candle, and show her her room,' said she.
Miss Matilda, a strapping hoyden of about fourteen, with a short
frock and trousers, shrugged her shoulders and made a slight
grimace, but took a candle and proceeded before me up the back
stairs (a long, steep, double flight), and through a long, narrow
passage, to a small but tolerably comfortable room.  She then asked
me if I would take some tea or coffee.  I was about to answer No;
but remembering that I had taken nothing since seven o'clock that
morning, and feeling faint in consequence, I said I would take a
cup of tea.  Saying she would tell 'Brown,' the young lady
departed; and by the time I had divested myself of my heavy, wet
cloak, shawl, bonnet, &c., a mincing damsel came to say the young
ladies desired to know whether I would take my tea up there or in
the schoolroom.  Under the plea of fatigue I chose to take it
there.  She withdrew; and, after a while, returned again with a
small tea-tray, and placed it on the chest of drawers, which served
as a dressing-table.  Having civilly thanked her, I asked at what
time I should be expected to rise in the morning.
'The young ladies and gentlemen breakfast at half-past eight,
ma'am,' said she; 'they rise early; but, as they seldom do any
lessons before breakfast, I should think it will do if you rise
soon after seven.'
I desired her to be so kind as to call me at seven, and, promising
to do so, she withdrew.  Then, having broken my long fast on a cup
of tea and a little thin bread and butter, I sat down beside the
small, smouldering fire, and amused myself with a hearty fit of
crying; after which, I said my prayers, and then, feeling
considerably relieved, began to prepare for bed.  Finding that none
of my luggage was brought up, I instituted a search for the bell;
and failing to discover any signs of such a convenience in any
corner of the room, I took my candle and ventured through the long
passage, and down the steep stairs, on a voyage of discovery.
Meeting a well-dressed female on the way, I told her what I wanted;
but not without considerable hesitation, as I was not quite sure
whether it was one of the upper servants, or Mrs. Murray herself:
it happened, however, to be the lady's-maid.  With the air of one
conferring an unusual favour, she vouchsafed to undertake the
sending up of my things; and when I had re-entered my room, and
waited and wondered a long time (greatly fearing that she had
forgotten or neglected to perform her promise, and doubting whether
to keep waiting or go to bed, or go down again), my hopes, at
length, were revived by the sound of voices and laughter,
accompanied by the tramp of feet along the passage; and presently
the luggage was brought in by a rough-looking maid and a man,
neither of them very respectful in their demeanour to me.  Having
shut the door upon their retiring footsteps, and unpacked a few of
my things, I betook myself to rest; gladly enough, for I was weary
in body and mind.
It was with a strange feeling of desolation, mingled with a strong
sense of the novelty of my situation, and a joyless kind of
curiosity concerning what was yet unknown, that I awoke the next
morning; feeling like one whirled away by enchantment, and suddenly
dropped from the clouds into a remote and unknown land, widely and
completely isolated from all he had ever seen or known before; or
like a thistle-seed borne on the wind to some strange nook of
uncongenial soil, where it must lie long enough before it can take
root and germinate, extracting nourishment from what appears so
alien to its nature:  if, indeed, it ever can.  But this gives no
proper idea of my feelings at all; and no one that has not lived
such a retired, stationary life as mine, can possibly imagine what
they were:  hardly even if he has known what it is to awake some
morning, and find himself in Port Nelson, in New Zealand, with a
world of waters between himself and all that knew him.
I shall not soon forget the peculiar feeling with which I raised my
blind and looked out upon the unknown world:  a wide, white
wilderness was all that met my gaze; a waste of
Deserts tossed in snow,
And heavy laden groves.
