
I sometimes felt myself degraded by the life I led, and ashamed of
submitting to so many indignities; and sometimes I thought myself a
fool for caring so much about them, and feared I must be sadly
wanting in Christian humility, or that charity which 'suffereth
long and is kind, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked,
beareth all things, endureth all things.'
But, with time and patience, matters began to be slightly
ameliorated:  slowly, it is true, and almost imperceptibly; but I
got rid of my male pupils (that was no trifling advantage), and the
girls, as I intimated before concerning one of them, became a
little less insolent, and began to show some symptoms of esteem.
'Miss Grey was a queer creature:  she never flattered, and did not
praise them half enough; but whenever she did speak favourably of
them, or anything belonging to them, they could be quite sure her
approbation was sincere.  She was very obliging, quiet, and
peaceable in the main, but there were some things that put her out
of temper:  they did not much care for that, to be sure, but still
it was better to keep her in tune; as when she was in a good humour
she would talk to them, and be very agreeable and amusing
sometimes, in her way; which was quite different to mamma's, but
still very well for a change.  She had her own opinions on every
subject, and kept steadily to them--very tiresome opinions they
often were; as she was always thinking of what was right and what
was wrong, and had a strange reverence for matters connected with
religion, and an unaccountable liking to good people.'
CHAPTER VIII--THE 'COMING OUT'
At eighteen, Miss Murray was to emerge from the quiet obscurity of
the schoolroom into the full blaze of the fashionable world--as
much of it, at least, as could be had out of London; for her papa
could not be persuaded to leave his rural pleasures and pursuits,
even for a few weeks' residence in town.  She was to make her debut
on the third of January, at a magnificent ball, which her mamma
proposed to give to all the nobility and choice gentry of O--- and
its neighbourhood for twenty miles round.  Of course, she looked
forward to it with the wildest impatience, and the most extravagant
anticipations of delight.
'Miss Grey,' said she, one evening, a month before the all-
important day, as I was perusing a long and extremely interesting
letter of my sister's--which I had just glanced at in the morning
to see that it contained no very bad news, and kept till now,
unable before to find a quiet moment for reading it,--'Miss Grey,
do put away that dull, stupid letter, and listen to me!  I'm sure
my talk must be far more amusing than that.'
She seated herself on the low stool at my feet; and I, suppressing
a sigh of vexation, began to fold up the epistle.
'You should tell the good people at home not to bore you with such
long letters,' said she; 'and, above all, do bid them write on
proper note-paper, and not on those great vulgar sheets.  You
should see the charming little lady-like notes mamma writes to her
friends.'
'The good people at home,' replied I, 'know very well that the
longer their letters are, the better I like them.  I should be very
sorry to receive a charming little lady-like note from any of them;
and I thought you were too much of a lady yourself, Miss Murray, to
talk about the "vulgarity" of writing on a large sheet of paper.'
'Well, I only said it to tease you.  But now I want to talk about
the ball; and to tell you that you positively must put off your
holidays till it is over.'
'Why so?--I shall not be present at the ball.'
'No, but you will see the rooms decked out before it begins, and
hear the music, and, above all, see me in my splendid new dress.  I
shall be so charming, you'll be ready to worship me--you really
must stay.'
'I should like to see you very much; but I shall have many
opportunities of seeing you equally charming, on the occasion of
some of the numberless balls and parties that are to be, and I
cannot disappoint my friends by postponing my return so long.'
'Oh, never mind your friends!  Tell them we won't let you go.'
'But, to say the truth, it would be a disappointment to myself:  I
long to see them as much as they to see me--perhaps more.'
'Well, but it is such a short time.'
'Nearly a fortnight by my computation; and, besides, I cannot bear
the thoughts of a Christmas spent from home:  and, moreover, my
sister is going to be married.'
'Is she--when?'
'Not till next month; but I want to be there to assist her in
making preparations, and to make the best of her company while we
have her.'
'Why didn't you tell me before?'
'I've only got the news in this letter, which you stigmatize as
dull and stupid, and won't let me read.'
'To whom is she to be married?'
