
'No--damn it, no!' shouted Miss Matilda.  'Hold your tongue, can't
ye? and let me tell her about my new mare--SUCH a splendour, Miss
Grey! a fine blood mare--'
'Do be quiet, Matilda; and let me tell my news first.'
'No, no, Rosalie; you'll be such a damned long time over it--she
shall hear me first--I'll be hanged if she doesn't!'
'I'm sorry to hear, Miss Matilda, that you've not got rid of that
shocking habit yet.'
'Well, I can't help it:  but I'll never say a wicked word again, if
you'll only listen to me, and tell Rosalie to hold her confounded
tongue.'
Rosalie remonstrated, and I thought I should have been torn in
pieces between them; but Miss Matilda having the loudest voice, her
sister at length gave in, and suffered her to tell her story first:
so I was doomed to hear a long account of her splendid mare, its
breeding and pedigree, its paces, its action, its spirit, &c., and
of her own amazing skill and courage in riding it; concluding with
an assertion that she could clear a five-barred gate 'like
winking,' that papa said she might hunt the next time the hounds
met, and mamma had ordered a bright scarlet hunting-habit for her.
'Oh, Matilda! what stories you are telling!' exclaimed her sister.
'Well,' answered she, no whit abashed, 'I know I COULD clear a
five-barred gate, if I tried, and papa WILL say I may hunt, and
mamma WILL order the habit when I ask it.'
'Well, now get along,' replied Miss Murray; 'and do, dear Matilda,
try to be a little more lady-like.  Miss Grey, I wish you would
tell her not to use such shocking words; she will call her horse a
mare:  it is so inconceivably shocking! and then she uses such
dreadful expressions in describing it:  she must have learned it
from the grooms.  It nearly puts me into fits when she begins.'
'I learned it from papa, you ass! and his jolly friends,' said the
young lady, vigorously cracking a hunting-whip, which she
habitually carried in her hand.  'I'm as good judge of horseflesh
as the best of 'm.'
'Well, now get along, you shocking girl!  I really shall take a fit
if you go on in such a way.  And now, Miss Grey, attend to me; I'm
going to tell you about the ball.  You must be dying to hear about
it, I know.  Oh, SUCH a ball!  You never saw or heard, or read, or
dreamt of anything like it in all your life.  The decorations, the
entertainment, the supper, the music were indescribable! and then
the guests!  There were two noblemen, three baronets, and five
titled ladies, and other ladies and gentlemen innumerable.  The
ladies, of course, were of no consequence to me, except to put me
in a good humour with myself, by showing how ugly and awkward most
of them were; and the best, mamma told me,--the most transcendent
beauties among them, were nothing to me.  As for me, Miss Grey--I'm
so SORRY you didn't see me!  I was CHARMING--wasn't I, Matilda?'
'Middling.'
'No, but I really was--at least so mamma said--and Brown and
Williamson.  Brown said she was sure no gentleman could set eyes on
me without falling in love that minute; and so I may be allowed to
be a little vain.  I know you think me a shocking, conceited,
frivolous girl; but then, you know, I don't attribute it ALL to my
personal attractions:  I give some praise to the hairdresser, and
some to my exquisitely lovely dress--you must see it to-morrow--
white gauze over pink satin--and so SWEETLY made! and a necklace
and bracelet of beautiful, large pearls!'
'I have no doubt you looked very charming:  but should that delight
you so very much?'
'Oh, no!--not that alone:  but, then, I was so much admired; and I
made so MANY conquests in that one night--you'd be astonished to
hear--'
'But what good will they do you?'
'What good!  Think of any woman asking that!'
'Well, I should think one conquest would be enough; and too much,
unless the subjugation were mutual.'
'Oh, but you know I never agree with you on those points.  Now,
wait a bit, and I'll tell you my principal admirers--those who made
themselves very conspicuous that night and after:  for I've been to
two parties since.  Unfortunately the two noblemen, Lord G--- and
Lord F---, were married, or I might have condescended to be
particularly gracious to THEM; as it was, I did not:  though Lord
F---, who hates his wife, was evidently much struck with me.  He
asked me to dance with him twice--he is a charming dancer, by-the-
by, and so am I:  you can't think how well I did--I was astonished
at myself.  My lord was very complimentary too--rather too much so
in fact--and I thought proper to be a little haughty and repellent;
but I had the pleasure of seeing his nasty, cross wife ready to
perish with spite and vexation--'
'Oh, Miss Murray! you don't mean to say that such a thing could
really give you pleasure?  However cross or--'
'Well, I know it's very wrong;--but never mind!  I mean to be good
some time--only don't preach now, there's a good creature.  I
haven't told you half yet.  Let me see.  Oh! I was going to tell
you how many unmistakeable admirers I had:- Sir Thomas Ashby was
one,--Sir Hugh Meltham and Sir Broadley Wilson are old codgers,
only fit companions for papa and mamma.  Sir Thomas is young, rich,
and gay; but an ugly beast, nevertheless:  however, mamma says I
should not mind that after a few months' acquaintance.  Then, there
was Henry Meltham, Sir Hugh's younger son; rather good-looking, and
a pleasant fellow to flirt with:  but BEING a younger son, that is
all he is good for; then there was young Mr. Green, rich enough,
but of no family, and a great stupid fellow, a mere country booby!
and then, our good rector, Mr. Hatfield:  an HUMBLE admirer he
ought to consider himself; but I fear he has forgotten to number
humility among his stock of Christian virtues.'
'Was Mr. Hatfield at the ball?'
'Yes, to be sure.  Did you think he was too good to go?'
'I thought be might consider it unclerical.'
'By no means.  He did not profane his cloth by dancing; but it was
with difficulty he could refrain, poor man:  he looked as if he
were dying to ask my hand just for ONE set; and--oh! by-the-by--
he's got a new curate:  that seedy old fellow Mr. Bligh has got his
long-wished-for living at last, and is gone.'
