
'And what is the new one like?'
'Oh, SUCH a beast!  Weston his name is.  I can give you his
description in three words--an insensate, ugly, stupid blockhead.
That's four, but no matter--enough of HIM now.'
Then she returned to the ball, and gave me a further account of her
deportment there, and at the several parties she had since
attended; and further particulars respecting Sir Thomas Ashby and
Messrs. Meltham, Green, and Hatfield, and the ineffaceable
impression she had wrought upon each of them.
'Well, which of the four do you like best?' said I, suppressing my
third or fourth yawn.
'I detest them all!' replied she, shaking her bright ringlets in
vivacious scorn.
'That means, I suppose, "I like them all"--but which most?'
'No, I really detest them all; but Harry Meltham is the handsomest
and most amusing, and Mr. Hatfield the cleverest, Sir Thomas the
wickedest, and Mr. Green the most stupid.  But the one I'm to have,
I suppose, if I'm doomed to have any of them, is Sir Thomas Ashby.'
'Surely not, if he's so wicked, and if you dislike him?'
'Oh, I don't mind his being wicked:  he's all the better for that;
and as for disliking him--I shouldn't greatly object to being Lady
Ashby of Ashby Park, if I must marry.  But if I could be always
young, I would be always single.  I should like to enjoy myself
thoroughly, and coquet with all the world, till I am on the verge
of being called an old maid; and then, to escape the infamy of
that, after having made ten thousand conquests, to break all their
hearts save one, by marrying some high-born, rich, indulgent
husband, whom, on the other hand, fifty ladies were dying to have.'
'Well, as long as you entertain these views, keep single by all
means, and never marry at all:  not even to escape the infamy of
old-maidenhood.'
CHAPTER X--THE CHURCH
'Well, Miss Grey, what do you think of the new curate?' asked Miss
Murray, on our return from church the Sunday after the
recommencement of our duties.
'I can scarcely tell,' was my reply:  'I have not even heard him
preach.'
'Well, but you saw him, didn't you?'
'Yes, but I cannot pretend to judge of a man's character by a
single cursory glance at his face.'
'But isn't he ugly?'
'He did not strike me as being particularly so; I don't dislike
that cast of countenance:  but the only thing I particularly
noticed about him was his style of reading; which appeared to me
good--infinitely better, at least, than Mr. Hatfield's.  He read
the Lessons as if he were bent on giving full effect to every
passage; it seemed as if the most careless person could not have
helped attending, nor the most ignorant have failed to understand;
and the prayers he read as if he were not reading at all, but
praying earnestly and sincerely from his own heart.'
'Oh, yes, that's all he is good for:  he can plod through the
service well enough; but he has not a single idea beyond it.'
'How do you know?'
'Oh! I know perfectly well; I am an excellent judge in such
matters.  Did you see how he went out of church? stumping along--as
if there were nobody there but himself--never looking to the right
hand or the left, and evidently thinking of nothing but just
getting out of the church, and, perhaps, home to his dinner:  his
great stupid head could contain no other idea.'
'I suppose you would have had him cast a glance into the squire's
pew,' said I, laughing at the vehemence of her hostility.
