
Matilda was beginning an angry reply; but, happily, our journey was
now at an end; and the contention was cut short by the footman
opening the carriage-door, and letting down the steps for our
descent.
CHAPTER XI--THE COTTAGERS
As I had now only one regular pupil--though she contrived to give
me as much trouble as three or four ordinary ones, and though her
sister still took lessons in German and drawing--I had considerably
more time at my own disposal than I had ever been blessed with
before, since I had taken upon me the governess's yoke; which time
I devoted partly to correspondence with my friends, partly to
reading, study, and the practice of music, singing, &c., partly to
wandering in the grounds or adjacent fields, with my pupils if they
wanted me, alone if they did not.
Often, when they had no more agreeable occupation at hand, the
Misses Murray would amuse themselves with visiting the poor
cottagers on their father's estate, to receive their flattering
homage, or to hear the old stories or gossiping news of the
garrulous old women; or, perhaps, to enjoy the purer pleasure of
making the poor people happy with their cheering presence and their
occasional gifts, so easily bestowed, so thankfully received.
Sometimes, I was called upon to accompany one or both of the
sisters in these visits; and sometimes I was desired to go alone,
to fulfil some promise which they had been more ready to make than
to perform; to carry some small donation, or read to one who was
sick or seriously disposed:  and thus I made a few acquaintances
among the cottagers; and, occasionally, I went to see them on my
own account.
I generally had more satisfaction in going alone than with either
of the young ladies; for they, chiefly owing to their defective
education, comported themselves towards their inferiors in a manner
that was highly disagreeable for me to witness.  They never, in
thought, exchanged places with them; and, consequently, had no
consideration for their feelings, regarding them as an order of
beings entirely different from themselves.  They would watch the
poor creatures at their meals, making uncivil remarks about their
food, and their manner of eating; they would laugh at their simple
notions and provincial expressions, till some of them scarcely
durst venture to speak; they would call the grave elderly men and
women old fools and silly old blockheads to their faces:  and all
this without meaning to offend.  I could see that the people were
often hurt and annoyed by such conduct, though their fear of the
'grand ladies' prevented them from testifying any resentment; but
THEY never perceived it.  They thought that, as these cottagers
were poor and untaught, they must be stupid and brutish; and as
long as they, their superiors, condescended to talk to them, and to
give them shillings and half-crowns, or articles of clothing, they
had a right to amuse themselves, even at their expense; and the
people must adore them as angels of light, condescending to
minister to their necessities, and enlighten their humble
dwellings.
I made many and various attempts to deliver my pupils from these
delusive notions without alarming their pride--which was easily
offended, and not soon appeased--but with little apparent result;
and I know not which was the more reprehensible of the two:
Matilda was more rude and boisterous; but from Rosalie's womanly
age and lady-like exterior better things were expected:  yet she
was as provokingly careless and inconsiderate as a giddy child of
twelve.
One bright day in the last week of February, I was walking in the
park, enjoying the threefold luxury of solitude, a book, and
pleasant weather; for Miss Matilda had set out on her daily ride,
and Miss Murray was gone in the carriage with her mamma to pay some
morning calls.  But it struck me that I ought to leave these
selfish pleasures, and the park with its glorious canopy of bright
blue sky, the west wind sounding through its yet leafless branches,
the snow-wreaths still lingering in its hollows, but melting fast
beneath the sun, and the graceful deer browsing on its moist
herbage already assuming the freshness and verdure of spring--and
go to the cottage of one Nancy Brown, a widow, whose son was at
work all day in the fields, and who was afflicted with an
inflammation in the eyes; which had for some time incapacitated her
from reading:  to her own great grief, for she was a woman of a
serious, thoughtful turn of mind.  I accordingly went, and found
her alone, as usual, in her little, close, dark cottage, redolent
of smoke and confined air, but as tidy and clean as she could make
it.  She was seated beside her little fire (consisting of a few red
cinders and a bit of stick), busily knitting, with a small
sackcloth cushion at her feet, placed for the accommodation of her
gentle friend the cat, who was seated thereon, with her long tail
half encircling her velvet paws, and her half-closed eyes dreamily
gazing on the low, crooked fender.
'Well, Nancy, how are you to-day?'
'Why, middling, Miss, i' myseln--my eyes is no better, but I'm a
deal easier i' my mind nor I have been,' replied she, rising to
welcome me with a contented smile; which I was glad to see, for
Nancy had been somewhat afflicted with religious melancholy.  I
congratulated her upon the change.  She agreed that it was a great
blessing, and expressed herself 'right down thankful for it';
adding, 'If it please God to spare my sight, and make me so as I
can read my Bible again, I think I shall be as happy as a queen.'
'I hope He will, Nancy,' replied I; 'and, meantime, I'll come and
read to you now and then, when I have a little time to spare.'
With expressions of grateful pleasure, the poor woman moved to get
me a chair; but, as I saved her the trouble, she busied herself
with stirring the fire, and adding a few more sticks to the
decaying embers; and then, taking her well-used Bible from the
shelf, dusted it carefully, and gave it me.  On my asking if there
was any particular part she should like me to read, she answered -
'Well, Miss Grey, if it's all the same to you, I should like to
hear that chapter in the First Epistle of St. John, that says, "God
is love, and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in
him."'
With a little searching, I found these words in the fourth chapter.
When I came to the seventh verse she interrupted me, and, with
needless apologies for such a liberty, desired me to read it very
slowly, that she might take it all in, and dwell on every word;
hoping I would excuse her, as she was but a 'simple body.'
'The wisest person,' I replied, 'might think over each of these
verses for an hour, and be all the better for it; and I would
rather read them slowly than not.'
Accordingly, I finished the chapter as slowly as need be, and at
the same time as impressively as I could; my auditor listened most
attentively all the while, and sincerely thanked me when I had
done.  I sat still about half a minute to give her time to reflect
upon it; when, somewhat to my surprise, she broke the pause by
asking me how I liked Mr. Weston?
'I don't know,' I replied, a little startled by the suddenness of
the question; 'I think he preaches very well.'
'Ay, he does so; and talks well too.'
'Does he?'
'He does.  Maybe, you haven't seen him--not to talk to him much,
yet?'
'No, I never see any one to talk to--except the young ladies of the
Hall.'
'Ah; they're nice, kind young ladies; but they can't talk as he
does.'
