
'Then he comes to see you, Nancy?'
'He does, Miss; and I'se thankful for it.  He comes to see all us
poor bodies a deal ofter nor Maister Bligh, or th' Rector ever did;
an' it's well he does, for he's always welcome:  we can't say as
much for th' Rector--there is 'at says they're fair feared on him.
When he comes into a house, they say he's sure to find summut
wrong, and begin a-calling 'em as soon as he crosses th' doorstuns:
but maybe he thinks it his duty like to tell 'em what's wrong.  And
very oft he comes o' purpose to reprove folk for not coming to
church, or not kneeling an' standing when other folk does, or going
to the Methody chapel, or summut o' that sort:  but I can't say 'at
he ever fund much fault wi' me.  He came to see me once or twice,
afore Maister Weston come, when I was so ill troubled in my mind;
and as I had only very poor health besides, I made bold to send for
him--and he came right enough.  I was sore distressed, Miss Grey--
thank God, it's owered now--but when I took my Bible, I could get
no comfort of it at all.  That very chapter 'at you've just been
reading troubled me as much as aught--"He that loveth not, knoweth
not God."  It seemed fearsome to me; for I felt that I loved
neither God nor man as I should do, and could not, if I tried ever
so.  And th' chapter afore, where it says,--"He that is born of God
cannot commit sin."  And another place where it says,--"Love is the
fulfilling of the Law."  And many, many others, Miss:  I should
fair weary you out, if I was to tell them all.  But all seemed to
condemn me, and to show me 'at I was not in the right way; and as I
knew not how to get into it, I sent our Bill to beg Maister
Hatfield to be as kind as look in on me some day and when he came,
I telled him all my troubles.'
'And what did he say, Nancy?'
'Why, Miss, he seemed to scorn me.  I might be mista'en--but he
like gave a sort of a whistle, and I saw a bit of a smile on his
face; and he said, "Oh, it's all stuff!  You've been among the
Methodists, my good woman."  But I telled him I'd never been near
the Methodies.  And then he said,--"Well," says he, "you must come
to church, where you'll hear the Scriptures properly explained,
instead of sitting poring over your Bible at home."
'But I telled him I always used coming to church when I had my
health; but this very cold winter weather I hardly durst venture so
far--and me so bad wi' th' rheumatic and all.
'But he says, "It'll do your rheumatiz good to hobble to church:
there's nothing like exercise for the rheumatiz.  You can walk
about the house well enough; why can't you walk to church?  The
fact is," says he, "you're getting too fond of your ease.  It's
always easy to find excuses for shirking one's duty."
'But then, you know, Miss Grey, it wasn't so.  However, I telled
him I'd try.  "But please, sir," says I, "if I do go to church,
what the better shall I be?  I want to have my sins blotted out,
and to feel that they are remembered no more against me, and that
the love of God is shed abroad in my heart; and if I can get no
good by reading my Bible an' saying my prayers at home, what good
shall I get by going to church?"'
'"The church," says he, "is the place appointed by God for His
worship.  It's your duty to go there as often as you can.  If you
want comfort, you must seek it in the path of duty,"--an' a deal
more he said, but I cannot remember all his fine words.  However,
it all came to this, that I was to come to church as oft as ever I
could, and bring my prayer-book with me, an' read up all the
sponsers after the clerk, an' stand, an' kneel, an' sit, an' do all
as I should, and take the Lord's Supper at every opportunity, an'
hearken his sermons, and Maister Bligh's, an' it 'ud be all right:
if I went on doing my duty, I should get a blessing at last.
'"But if you get no comfort that way," says he, "it's all up."
'"Then, sir," says I, "should you think I'm a reprobate?"
'"Why," says he--he says, "if you do your best to get to heaven and
can't manage it, you must be one of those that seek to enter in at
the strait gate and shall not be able."
'An' then he asked me if I'd seen any of the ladies o' th' Hall
about that mornin'; so I telled him where I had seen the young
misses go on th' Moss Lane;--an' he kicked my poor cat right across
th' floor, an' went after 'em as gay as a lark:  but I was very
sad.  That last word o' his fair sunk into my heart, an' lay there
like a lump o' lead, till I was weary to bear it.
'Howsever, I follered his advice:  I thought he meant it all for
th' best, though he HAD a queer way with him.  But you know, Miss,
he's rich an' young, and such like cannot right understand the
thoughts of a poor old woman such as me.  But, howsever, I did my
best to do all as he bade me--but maybe I'm plaguing you, Miss, wi'
my chatter.'
'Oh, no, Nancy!  Go on, and tell me all.'
'Well, my rheumatiz got better--I know not whether wi' going to
church or not, but one frosty Sunday I got this cold i' my eyes.
Th' inflammation didn't come on all at once like, but bit by bit--
but I wasn't going to tell you about my eyes, I was talking about
my trouble o' mind;--and to tell the truth, Miss Grey, I don't
think it was anyways eased by coming to church--nought to speak on,
at least:  I like got my health better; but that didn't mend my
soul.  I hearkened and hearkened the ministers, and read an' read
at my prayer-book; but it was all like sounding brass and a
tinkling cymbal:  the sermons I couldn't understand, an' th'
prayer-book only served to show me how wicked I was, that I could
read such good words an' never be no better for it, and oftens feel
it a sore labour an' a heavy task beside, instead of a blessing and
a privilege as all good Christians does.  It seemed like as all
were barren an' dark to me.  And then, them dreadful words, "Many
shall seek to enter in, and shall not be able."  They like as they
fair dried up my sperrit.
'But one Sunday, when Maister Hatfield gave out about the
sacrament, I noticed where he said, "If there be any of you that
cannot quiet his own conscience, but requireth further comfort or
counsel, let him come to me, or some other discreet and learned
minister of God's word, and open his grief!"  So next Sunday
morning, afore service, I just looked into the vestry, an' began a-
talking to th' Rector again.  I hardly could fashion to take such a
liberty, but I thought when my soul was at stake I shouldn't stick
at a trifle.  But he said he hadn't time to attend to me then.
'"And, indeed," says he, "I've nothing to say to you but what I've
said before.  Take the sacrament, of course, and go on doing your
duty; and if that won't serve you, nothing will.  So don't bother
me any more."
'So then, I went away.  But I heard Maister Weston--Maister Weston
was there, Miss--this was his first Sunday at Horton, you know, an'
he was i' th' vestry in his surplice, helping th' Rector on with
his gown--'
'Yes, Nancy.'
'And I heard him ask Maister Hatfield who I was, an' he says, "Oh,
she's a canting old fool."
'And I was very ill grieved, Miss Grey; but I went to my seat, and
I tried to do my duty as aforetime:  but I like got no peace.  An'
I even took the sacrament; but I felt as though I were eating and
drinking to my own damnation all th' time.  So I went home, sorely
troubled.
'But next day, afore I'd gotten fettled up--for indeed, Miss, I'd
no heart to sweeping an' fettling, an' washing pots; so I sat me
down i' th' muck--who should come in but Maister Weston!  I started
siding stuff then, an' sweeping an' doing; and I expected he'd
begin a-calling me for my idle ways, as Maister Hatfield would a'
done; but I was mista'en:  he only bid me good-mornin' like, in a
quiet dacent way.  So I dusted him a chair, an' fettled up th'
fireplace a bit; but I hadn't forgotten th' Rector's words, so says
I, "I wonder, sir, you should give yourself that trouble, to come
so far to see a 'canting old fool,' such as me."
'He seemed taken aback at that; but he would fain persuade me 'at
the Rector was only in jest; and when that wouldn't do, he says,
"Well, Nancy, you shouldn't think so much about it:  Mr. Hatfield
was a little out of humour just then:  you know we're none of us
perfect--even Moses spoke unadvisedly with his lips.  But now sit
down a minute, if you can spare the time, and tell me all your
doubts and fears; and I'll try to remove them."
'So I sat me down anent him.  He was quite a stranger, you know,
Miss Grey, and even YOUNGER nor Maister Hatfield, I believe; and I
had thought him not so pleasant-looking as him, and rather a bit
crossish, at first, to look at; but he spake so civil like--and
when th' cat, poor thing, jumped on to his knee, he only stroked
her, and gave a bit of a smile:  so I thought that was a good sign;
for once, when she did so to th' Rector, he knocked her off, like
as it might be in scorn and anger, poor thing.  But you can't
expect a cat to know manners like a Christian, you know, Miss
Grey.'
'No; of course not, Nancy.  But what did Mr. Weston say then?'
