
'He said nought; but he listened to me as steady an' patient as
could be, an' never a bit o' scorn about him; so I went on, an'
telled him all, just as I've telled you--an' more too.
'"Well," says he, "Mr. Hatfield was quite right in telling you to
persevere in doing your duty; but in advising you to go to church
and attend to the service, and so on, he didn't mean that was the
whole of a Christian's duty:  he only thought you might there learn
what more was to be done, and be led to take delight in those
exercises, instead of finding them a task and a burden.  And if you
had asked him to explain those words that trouble you so much, I
think he would have told you, that if many shall seek to enter in
at the strait gate and shall not be able, it is their own sins that
hinder them; just as a man with a large sack on his back might wish
to pass through a narrow doorway, and find it impossible to do so
unless he would leave his sack behind him.  But you, Nancy, I dare
say, have no sins that you would not gladly throw aside, if you
knew how?"
'"Indeed, sir, you speak truth," said I.
'"Well," says he, "you know the first and great commandment--and
the second, which is like unto it--on which two commandments hang
all the law and the prophets?  You say you cannot love God; but it
strikes me that if you rightly consider who and what He is, you
cannot help it.  He is your father, your best friend:  every
blessing, everything good, pleasant, or useful, comes from Him; and
everything evil, everything you have reason to hate, to shun, or to
fear, comes from Satan--HIS enemy as well as ours.  And for THIS
cause was God manifest in the flesh, that He might destroy the
works of the Devil:  in one word, God is LOVE; and the more of love
we have within us, the nearer we are to Him and the more of His
spirit we possess."
'"Well, sir," I said, "if I can always think on these things, I
think I might well love God:  but how can I love my neighbours,
when they vex me, and be so contrary and sinful as some on 'em is?"
'"It may seem a hard matter," says he, "to love our neighbours, who
have so much of what is evil about them, and whose faults so often
awaken the evil that lingers within ourselves; but remember that HE
made them, and HE loves them; and whosoever loveth him that begat,
loveth him that is begotten also.  And if God so loveth us, that He
gave His only begotten Son to die for us, we ought also to love one
another.  But if you cannot feel positive affection for those who
do not care for you, you can at least try to do to them as you
would they should do unto you:  you can endeavour to pity their
failings and excuse their offences, and to do all the good you can
to those about you.  And if you accustom yourself to this, Nancy,
the very effort itself will make you love them in some degree--to
say nothing of the goodwill your kindness would beget in them,
though they might have little else that is good about them.  If we
love God and wish to serve Him, let us try to be like Him, to do
His work, to labour for His glory--which is the good of man--to
hasten the coming of His kingdom, which is the peace and happiness
of all the world:  however powerless we may seem to be, in doing
all the good we can through life, the humblest of us may do much
towards it:  and let us dwell in love, that He may dwell in us and
we in Him.  The more happiness we bestow, the more we shall
receive, even here; and the greater will be our reward in heaven
when we rest from our labours."  I believe, Miss, them is his very
words, for I've thought 'em ower many a time.  An' then he took
that Bible, an' read bits here and there, an' explained 'em as
clear as the day:  and it seemed like as a new light broke in on my
soul; an' I felt fair aglow about my heart, an' only wished poor
Bill an' all the world could ha' been there, an' heard it all, and
rejoiced wi' me.
'After he was gone, Hannah Rogers, one o' th' neighbours, came in
and wanted me to help her to wash.  I telled her I couldn't just
then, for I hadn't set on th' potaties for th' dinner, nor washed
up th' breakfast stuff yet.  So then she began a-calling me for my
nasty idle ways.  I was a little bit vexed at first, but I never
said nothing wrong to her:  I only telled her like all in a quiet
way, 'at I'd had th' new parson to see me; but I'd get done as
quick as ever I could, an' then come an' help her.  So then she
softened down; and my heart like as it warmed towards her, an' in a
bit we was very good friends.  An' so it is, Miss Grey, "a soft
answer turneth away wrath; but grievous words stir up anger."  It
isn't only in them you speak to, but in yourself.'
'Very true, Nancy, if we could always remember it.'
'Ay, if we could!'
'And did Mr. Weston ever come to see you again?'
'Yes, many a time; and since my eyes has been so bad, he's sat an'
read to me by the half-hour together:  but you know, Miss, he has
other folks to see, and other things to do--God bless him!  An'
that next Sunday he preached SUCH a sermon!  His text was, "Come
unto me all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you
rest," and them two blessed verses that follows.  You wasn't there,
Miss, you was with your friends then--but it made me SO happy!  And
I AM happy now, thank God! an' I take a pleasure, now, in doing
little bits o' jobs for my neighbours--such as a poor old body
'at's half blind can do; and they take it kindly of me, just as he
said.  You see, Miss, I'm knitting a pair o' stockings now;--
they're for Thomas Jackson:  he's a queerish old body, an' we've
had many a bout at threaping, one anent t'other; an' at times we've
differed sorely.  So I thought I couldn't do better nor knit him a
pair o' warm stockings; an' I've felt to like him a deal better,
poor old man, sin' I began.  It's turned out just as Maister Weston
said.'
'Well, I'm very glad to see you so happy, Nancy, and so wise:  but
I must go now; I shall be wanted at the Hall,' said I; and bidding
her good-bye, I departed, promising to come again when I had time,
and feeling nearly as happy as herself.
At another time I went to read to a poor labourer who was in the
last stage of consumption.  The young ladies had been to see him,
and somehow a promise of reading had been extracted from them; but
it was too much trouble, so they begged me to do it instead.  I
went, willingly enough; and there too I was gratified with the
praises of Mr. Weston, both from the sick man and his wife.  The
former told me that he derived great comfort and benefit from the
visits of the new parson, who frequently came to see him, and was
'another guess sort of man' to Mr. Hatfield; who, before the
other's arrival at Horton, had now and then paid him a visit; on
which occasions he would always insist upon having the cottage-door
kept open, to admit the fresh air for his own convenience, without
considering how it might injure the sufferer; and having opened his
prayer-book and hastily read over a part of the Service for the
Sick, would hurry away again:  if he did not stay to administer
some harsh rebuke to the afflicted wife, or to make some
thoughtless, not to say heartless, observation, rather calculated
to increase than diminish the troubles of the suffering pair.
'Whereas,' said the man, 'Maister Weston 'ull pray with me quite in
a different fashion, an' talk to me as kind as owt; an' oft read to
me too, an' sit beside me just like a brother.'
'Just for all the world!' exclaimed his wife; 'an' about a three
wik sin', when he seed how poor Jem shivered wi' cold, an' what
pitiful fires we kept, he axed if wer stock of coals was nearly
done.  I telled him it was, an' we was ill set to get more:  but
you know, mum, I didn't think o' him helping us; but, howsever, he
sent us a sack o' coals next day; an' we've had good fires ever
sin':  and a great blessing it is, this winter time.  But that's
his way, Miss Grey:  when he comes into a poor body's house a-
seein' sick folk, he like notices what they most stand i' need on;
an' if he thinks they can't readily get it therseln, he never says
nowt about it, but just gets it for 'em.  An' it isn't everybody
'at 'ud do that, 'at has as little as he has:  for you know, mum,
he's nowt at all to live on but what he gets fra' th' Rector, an'
that's little enough they say.'
I remembered then, with a species of exultation, that he had
frequently been styled a vulgar brute by the amiable Miss Murray,
because he wore a silver watch, and clothes not quite so bright and
fresh as Mr. Hatfield's.
In returning to the Lodge I felt very happy, and thanked God that I
had now something to think about; something to dwell on as a relief
from the weary monotony, the lonely drudgery, of my present life:
for I WAS lonely.  Never, from month to month, from year to year,
except during my brief intervals of rest at home, did I see one
creature to whom I could open my heart, or freely speak my thoughts
with any hope of sympathy, or even comprehension:  never one,
unless it were poor Nancy Brown, with whom I could enjoy a single
moment of real social intercourse, or whose conversation was
calculated to render me better, wiser, or happier than before; or
who, as far as I could see, could be greatly benefited by mine.  My
only companions had been unamiable children, and ignorant, wrong-
headed girls; from whose fatiguing folly, unbroken solitude was
often a relief most earnestly desired and dearly prized.  But to be
restricted to such associates was a serious evil, both in its
immediate effects and the consequences that were likely to ensue.
Never a new idea or stirring thought came to me from without; and
such as rose within me were, for the most part, miserably crushed
at once, or doomed to sicken or fade away, because they could not
see the light.
Habitual associates are known to exercise a great influence over
each other's minds and manners.  Those whose actions are for ever
before our eyes, whose words are ever in our ears, will naturally
lead us, albeit against our will, slowly, gradually, imperceptibly,
perhaps, to act and speak as they do.  I will not presume to say
how far this irresistible power of assimilation extends; but if one
civilised man were doomed to pass a dozen years amid a race of
intractable savages, unless he had power to improve them, I greatly
question whether, at the close of that period, he would not have
become, at least, a barbarian himself.  And I, as I could not make
my young companions better, feared exceedingly that they would make
me worse--would gradually bring my feelings, habits, capacities, to
the level of their own; without, however, imparting to me their
lightheartedness and cheerful vivacity.
Already, I seemed to feel my intellect deteriorating, my heart
petrifying, my soul contracting; and I trembled lest my very moral
perceptions should become deadened, my distinctions of right and
wrong confounded, and all my better faculties be sunk, at last,
beneath the baneful influence of such a mode of life.  The gross
vapours of earth were gathering around me, and closing in upon my
inward heaven; and thus it was that Mr. Weston rose at length upon
me, appearing like the morning star in my horizon, to save me from
the fear of utter darkness; and I rejoiced that I had now a subject
for contemplation that was above me, not beneath.  I was glad to
see that all the world was not made up of Bloomfields, Murrays,
Hatfields, Ashbys, &c.; and that human excellence was not a mere
dream of the imagination.  When we hear a little good and no harm
of a person, it is easy and pleasant to imagine more:  in short, it
is needless to analyse all my thoughts; but Sunday was now become a
day of peculiar delight to me (I was now almost broken-in to the
back corner in the carriage), for I liked to hear him--and I liked
to see him, too; though I knew he was not handsome, or even what is
called agreeable, in outward aspect; but, certainly, he was not
ugly.
In stature he was a little, a very little, above the middle size;
the outline of his face would be pronounced too square for beauty,
but to me it announced decision of character; his dark brown hair
was not carefully curled, like Mr. Hatfield's, but simply brushed
aside over a broad white forehead; the eyebrows, I suppose, were
too projecting, but from under those dark brows there gleamed an
eye of singular power, brown in colour, not large, and somewhat
deep-set, but strikingly brilliant, and full of expression; there
was character, too, in the mouth, something that bespoke a man of
firm purpose and an habitual thinker; and when he smiled--but I
will not speak of that yet, for, at the time I mention, I had never
seen him smile:  and, indeed, his general appearance did not
impress me with the idea of a man given to such a relaxation, nor
of such an individual as the cottagers described him.  I had early
formed my opinion of him; and, in spite of Miss Murray's
objurgations:  was fully convinced that he was a man of strong
sense, firm faith, and ardent piety, but thoughtful and stern:  and
when I found that, to his other good qualities, was added that of
true benevolence and gentle, considerate kindness, the discovery,
perhaps, delighted me the more, as I had not been prepared to
expect it.
CHAPTER XII--THE SHOWER
