
'How could I ride in the rain, I should like to know.  That damned
pelting shower was vexatious enough--coming on when I was just in
full swing:  and then to come and find nobody in to tea! and you
know I can't make the tea as I like it.'
'I didn't think of the shower,' replied I (and, indeed, the thought
of its driving her home had never entered my head).
'No, of course; you were under shelter yourself, and you never
thought of other people.'
I bore her coarse reproaches with astonishing equanimity, even with
cheerfulness; for I was sensible that I had done more good to Nancy
Brown than harm to her:  and perhaps some other thoughts assisted
to keep up my spirits, and impart a relish to the cup of cold,
overdrawn tea, and a charm to the otherwise unsightly table; and--I
had almost said--to Miss Matilda's unamiable face.  But she soon
betook herself to the stables, and left me to the quiet enjoyment
of my solitary meal.
CHAPTER XIII--THE PRIMROSES
Miss Murray now always went twice to church, for she so loved
admiration that she could not bear to lose a single opportunity of
obtaining it; and she was so sure of it wherever she showed
herself, that, whether Harry Meltham and Mr. Green were there or
not, there was certain to be somebody present who would not be
insensible to her charms, besides the Rector, whose official
capacity generally obliged him to attend.  Usually, also, if the
weather permitted, both she and her sister would walk home;
Matilda, because she hated the confinement of the carriage; she,
because she disliked the privacy of it, and enjoyed the company
that generally enlivened the first mile of the journey in walking
from the church to Mr. Green's park-gates:  near which commenced
the private road to Horton Lodge, which lay in the opposite
direction, while the highway conducted in a straightforward course
to the still more distant mansion of Sir Hugh Meltham.  Thus there
was always a chance of being accompanied, so far, either by Harry
Meltham, with or without Miss Meltham, or Mr. Green, with perhaps
one or both of his sisters, and any gentlemen visitors they might
have.
Whether I walked with the young ladies or rode with their parents,
depended upon their own capricious will:  if they chose to 'take'
me, I went; if, for reasons best known to themselves, they chose to
go alone, I took my seat in the carriage.  I liked walking better,
but a sense of reluctance to obtrude my presence on anyone who did
not desire it, always kept me passive on these and similar
occasions; and I never inquired into the causes of their varying
whims.  Indeed, this was the best policy--for to submit and oblige
was the governess's part, to consult their own pleasure was that of
the pupils.  But when I did walk, the first half of journey was
generally a great nuisance to me.  As none of the before-mentioned
ladies and gentlemen ever noticed me, it was disagreeable to walk
beside them, as if listening to what they said, or wishing to be
thought one of them, while they talked over me, or across; and if
their eyes, in speaking, chanced to fall on me, it seemed as if
they looked on vacancy--as if they either did not see me, or were
very desirous to make it appear so.  It was disagreeable, too, to
walk behind, and thus appear to acknowledge my own inferiority;
for, in truth, I considered myself pretty nearly as good as the
best of them, and wished them to know that I did so, and not to
imagine that I looked upon myself as a mere domestic, who knew her
own place too well to walk beside such fine ladies and gentlemen as
they were--though her young ladies might choose to have her with
them, and even condescend to converse with her when no better
company were at hand.  Thus--I am almost ashamed to confess it--but
indeed I gave myself no little trouble in my endeavours (if I did
keep up with them) to appear perfectly unconscious or regardless of
their presence, as if I were wholly absorbed in my own reflections,
or the contemplation of surrounding objects; or, if I lingered
behind, it was some bird or insect, some tree or flower, that
attracted my attention, and having duly examined that, I would
pursue my walk alone, at a leisurely pace, until my pupils had
bidden adieu to their companions and turned off into the quiet
private road.
One such occasion I particularly well remember; it was a lovely
afternoon about the close of March; Mr. Green and his sisters had
sent their carriage back empty, in order to enjoy the bright
sunshine and balmy air in a sociable walk home along with their
visitors, Captain Somebody and Lieutenant Somebody-else (a couple
of military fops), and the Misses Murray, who, of course, contrived
to join them.  Such a party was highly agreeable to Rosalie; but
not finding it equally suitable to my taste, I presently fell back,
and began to botanise and entomologise along the green banks and
budding hedges, till the company was considerably in advance of me,
and I could hear the sweet song of the happy lark; then my spirit
of misanthropy began to melt away beneath the soft, pure air and
genial sunshine; but sad thoughts of early childhood, and yearnings
for departed joys, or for a brighter future lot, arose instead.  As
my eyes wandered over the steep banks covered with young grass and
green-leaved plants, and surmounted by budding hedges, I longed
intensely for some familiar flower that might recall the woody
dales or green hill-sides of home:  the brown moorlands, of course,
were out of the question.  Such a discovery would make my eyes gush
out with water, no doubt; but that was one of my greatest
enjoyments now.  At length I descried, high up between the twisted
roots of an oak, three lovely primroses, peeping so sweetly from
their hiding-place that the tears already started at the sight; but
they grew so high above me, that I tried in vain to gather one or
two, to dream over and to carry with me:  I could not reach them
unless I climbed the bank, which I was deterred from doing by
hearing a footstep at that moment behind me, and was, therefore,
about to turn away, when I was startled by the words, 'Allow me to
gather them for you, Miss Grey,' spoken in the grave, low tones of
a well-known voice.  Immediately the flowers were gathered, and in
my hand.  It was Mr. Weston, of course--who else would trouble
himself to do so much for ME?
'I thanked him; whether warmly or coldly, I cannot tell:  but
certain I am that I did not express half the gratitude I felt.  It
was foolish, perhaps, to feel any gratitude at all; but it seemed
to me, at that moment, as if this were a remarkable instance of his
good-nature:  an act of kindness, which I could not repay, but
never should forget:  so utterly unaccustomed was I to receive such
civilities, so little prepared to expect them from anyone within
fifty miles of Horton Lodge.  Yet this did not prevent me from
feeling a little uncomfortable in his presence; and I proceeded to
follow my pupils at a much quicker pace than before; though,
perhaps, if Mr. Weston had taken the hint, and let me pass without
another word, I might have repeated it an hour after:  but he did
not.  A somewhat rapid walk for me was but an ordinary pace for
him.
'Your young ladies have left you alone,' said he.
'Yes, they are occupied with more agreeable company.'
'Then don't trouble yourself to overtake them.'  I slackened my
pace; but next moment regretted having done so:  my companion did
not speak; and I had nothing in the world to say, and feared he
might be in the same predicament.  At length, however, he broke the
pause by asking, with a certain quiet abruptness peculiar to
himself, if I liked flowers.
'Yes; very much,' I answered, 'wild-flowers especially.'
'_I_ like wild-flowers,' said he; 'others I don't care about,
because I have no particular associations connected with them--
except one or two.  What are your favourite flowers?'
'Primroses, bluebells, and heath-blossoms.'
'Not violets?'
'No; because, as you say, I have no particular associations
connected with them; for there are no sweet violets among the hills
and valleys round my home.'
'It must be a great consolation to you to have a home, Miss Grey,'
observed my companion after a short pause:  'however remote, or
however seldom visited, still it is something to look to.'
'It is so much that I think I could not live without it,' replied
I, with an enthusiasm of which I immediately repented; for I
thought it must have sounded essentially silly.
'Oh, yes, you could,' said he, with a thoughtful smile.  'The ties
that bind us to life are tougher than you imagine, or than anyone
can who has not felt how roughly they may be pulled without
breaking.  You might be miserable without a home, but even YOU
could live; and not so miserably as you suppose.  The human heart
is like india-rubber; a little swells it, but a great deal will not
burst it.  If "little more than nothing will disturb it, little
less than all things will suffice" to break it.  As in the outer
members of our frame, there is a vital power inherent in itself
that strengthens it against external violence.  Every blow that
shakes it will serve to harden it against a future stroke; as
constant labour thickens the skin of the hand, and strengthens its
muscles instead of wasting them away:  so that a day of arduous
toil, that might excoriate a lady's palm, would make no sensible
impression on that of a hardy ploughman.
'I speak from experience--partly my own.  There was a time when I
thought as you do--at least, I was fully persuaded that home and
its affections were the only things that made life tolerable:
that, if deprived of these, existence would become a burden hard to
be endured; but now I have no home--unless you would dignify my two
hired rooms at Horton by such a name;--and not twelve months ago I
lost the last and dearest of my early friends; and yet, not only I
live, but I am not wholly destitute of hope and comfort, even for
this life:  though I must acknowledge that I can seldom enter even
an humble cottage at the close of day, and see its inhabitants
peaceably gathered around their cheerful hearth, without a feeling
ALMOST of envy at their domestic enjoyment.'
