
'You don't know what happiness lies before you yet,' said I:  'you
are now only in the commencement of your journey.'
'The best of happiness,' replied he, 'is mine already--the power
and the will to be useful.'
We now approached a stile communicating with a footpath that
conducted to a farm-house, where, I suppose, Mr. Weston purposed to
make himself 'useful;' for he presently took leave of me, crossed
the stile, and traversed the path with his usual firm, elastic
tread, leaving me to ponder his words as I continued my course
alone.  I had heard before that he had lost his mother not many
months before he came.  She then was the last and dearest of his
early friends; and he had NO HOME.  I pitied him from my heart:  I
almost wept for sympathy.  And this, I thought, accounted for the
shade of premature thoughtfulness that so frequently clouded his
brow, and obtained for him the reputation of a morose and sullen
disposition with the charitable Miss Murray and all her kin.
'But,' thought I, 'he is not so miserable as I should be under such
a deprivation:  he leads an active life; and a wide field for
useful exertion lies before him.  He can MAKE friends; and he can
make a home too, if he pleases; and, doubtless, he will please some
time.  God grant the partner of that home may be worthy of his
choice, and make it a happy one--such a home as he deserves to
have!  And how delightful it would be to--'  But no matter what I
thought.
I began this book with the intention of concealing nothing; that
those who liked might have the benefit of perusing a fellow-
creature's heart:  but we have some thoughts that all the angels in
heaven are welcome to behold, but not our brother-men--not even the
best and kindest amongst them.
By this time the Greens had taken themselves to their own abode,
and the Murrays had turned down the private road, whither I
hastened to follow them.  I found the two girls warm in an animated
discussion on the respective merits of the two young officers; but
on seeing me Rosalie broke off in the middle of a sentence to
exclaim, with malicious glee -
'Oh-ho, Miss Grey! you're come at last, are you?  No WONDER you
lingered so long behind; and no WONDER you always stand up so
vigorously for Mr. Weston when I abuse him.  Ah-ha!  I see it all
now!'
'Now, come, Miss Murray, don't be foolish,' said I, attempting a
good-natured laugh; 'you know such nonsense can make no impression
on me.'
But she still went on talking such intolerable stuff--her sister
helping her with appropriate fiction coined for the occasion--that
I thought it necessary to say something in my own justification.
'What folly all this is!' I exclaimed.  'If Mr. Weston's road
happened to be the same as mine for a few yards, and if he chose to
exchange a word or two in passing, what is there so remarkable in
that?  I assure you, I never spoke to him before:  except once.'
'Where? where? and when?' cried they eagerly.
'In Nancy's cottage.'
'Ah-ha! you've met him there, have you?' exclaimed Rosalie, with
exultant laughter.  'Ah! now, Matilda, I've found out why she's so
fond of going to Nancy Brown's!  She goes there to flirt with Mr.
Weston.'
'Really, that is not worth contradicting--I only saw him there
once, I tell you--and how could I know he was coming?'
Irritated as I was at their foolish mirth and vexatious
imputations, the uneasiness did not continue long:  when they had
had their laugh out, they returned again to the captain and
lieutenant; and, while they disputed and commented upon them, my
indignation rapidly cooled; the cause of it was quickly forgotten,
and I turned my thoughts into a pleasanter channel.  Thus we
proceeded up the park, and entered the hall; and as I ascended the
stairs to my own chamber, I had but one thought within me:  my
heart was filled to overflowing with one single earnest wish.
Having entered the room, and shut the door, I fell upon my knees
and offered up a fervent but not impetuous prayer:  'Thy will be
done,' I strove to say throughout; but, 'Father, all things are
possible with Thee, and may it be Thy will,' was sure to follow.
That wish--that prayer--both men and women would have scorned me
for--'But, Father, THOU wilt NOT despise!' I said, and felt that it
was true.  It seemed to me that another's welfare was at least as
ardently implored for as my own; nay, even THAT was the principal
object of my heart's desire.  I might have been deceiving myself;
but that idea gave me confidence to ask, and power to hope I did
not ask in vain.  As for the primroses, I kept two of them in a
glass in my room until they were completely withered, and the
housemaid threw them out; and the petals of the other I pressed
between the leaves of my Bible--I have them still, and mean to keep
them always.
CHAPTER XIV--THE RECTOR
The following day was as fine as the preceding one.  Soon after
breakfast Miss Matilda, having galloped and blundered through a few
unprofitable lessons, and vengeably thumped the piano for an hour,
in a terrible humour with both me and it, because her mamma would
not give her a holiday, had betaken herself to her favourite places
of resort, the yards, the stables, and the dog-kennels; and Miss
Murray was gone forth to enjoy a quiet ramble with a new
fashionable novel for her companion, leaving me in the schoolroom
hard at work upon a water-colour drawing which I had promised to do
for her, and which she insisted upon my finishing that day.
At my feet lay a little rough terrier.  It was the property of Miss
Matilda; but she hated the animal, and intended to sell it,
alleging that it was quite spoiled.  It was really an excellent dog
of its kind; but she affirmed it was fit for nothing, and had not
even the sense to know its own mistress.
The fact was she had purchased it when but a small puppy, insisting
at first that no one should touch it but herself; but soon becoming
tired of so helpless and troublesome a nursling, she had gladly
yielded to my entreaties to be allowed to take charge of it; and I,
by carefully nursing the little creature from infancy to
adolescence, of course, had obtained its affections:  a reward I
should have greatly valued, and looked upon as far outweighing all
the trouble I had had with it, had not poor Snap's grateful
feelings exposed him to many a harsh word and many a spiteful kick
and pinch from his owner, and were he not now in danger of being
'put away' in consequence, or transferred to some rough, stony-
hearted master.  But how could I help it?  I could not make the dog
hate me by cruel treatment, and she would not propitiate him by
kindness.
However, while I thus sat, working away with my pencil, Mrs. Murray
came, half-sailing, half-bustling, into the room.
'Miss Grey,' she began,--'dear! how can you sit at your drawing
such a day as this?'  (She thought I was doing it for my own
pleasure.)  'I WONDER you don't put on your bonnet and go out with
the young ladies.'
'I think, ma'am, Miss Murray is reading; and Miss Matilda is
amusing herself with her dogs.'
