
'NO, indeed!  It will be a proper punishment for his presumption--
for ever DARING to think I could like him.  I should enjoy nothing
so much as lifting the veil from his eyes.'
'The sooner you do it the better then.'
'No; I tell you, I like to amuse myself with him.  Besides, he
doesn't really think I like him.  I take good care of that:  you
don't know how cleverly I manage.  He may presume to think he can
induce me to like him; for which I shall punish him as he
deserves.'
'Well, mind you don't give too much reason for such presumption--
that's all,' replied I.
But all my exhortations were in vain:  they only made her somewhat
more solicitous to disguise her wishes and her thoughts from me.
She talked no more to me about the Rector; but I could see that her
mind, if not her heart, was fixed upon him still, and that she was
intent upon obtaining another interview:  for though, in compliance
with her mother's request, I was now constituted the companion of
her rambles for a time, she still persisted in wandering in the
fields and lanes that lay in the nearest proximity to the road;
and, whether she talked to me or read the book she carried in her
hand, she kept continually pausing to look round her, or gaze up
the road to see if anyone was coming; and if a horseman trotted by,
I could tell by her unqualified abuse of the poor equestrian,
whoever he might be, that she hated him BECAUSE he was not Mr.
Hatfield.
'Surely,' thought I, 'she is not so indifferent to him as she
believes herself to be, or would have others to believe her; and
her mother's anxiety is not so wholly causeless as she affirms.'
Three days passed away, and he did not make his appearance.  On the
afternoon of the fourth, as we were walking beside the park-palings
in the memorable field, each furnished with a book (for I always
took care to provide myself with something to be doing when she did
not require me to talk), she suddenly interrupted my studies by
exclaiming -
'Oh, Miss Grey! do be so kind as to go and see Mark Wood, and take
his wife half-a-crown from me--I should have given or sent it a
week ago, but quite forgot.  There!' said she, throwing me her
purse, and speaking very fast--'Never mind getting it out now, but
take the purse and give them what you like; I would go with you,
but I want to finish this volume.  I'll come and meet you when I've
done it.  Be quick, will you--and--oh, wait; hadn't you better read
to him a bit?  Run to the house and get some sort of a good book.
Anything will do.'
I did as I was desired; but, suspecting something from her hurried
manner and the suddenness of the request, I just glanced back
before I quitted the field, and there was Mr. Hatfield about to
enter at the gate below.  By sending me to the house for a book,
she had just prevented my meeting him on the road.
'Never mind!' thought I, 'there'll be no great harm done.  Poor
Mark will be glad of the half-crown, and perhaps of the good book
too; and if the Rector does steal Miss Rosalie's heart, it will
only humble her pride a little; and if they do get married at last,
it will only save her from a worse fate; and she will be quite a
good enough partner for him, and he for her.'
Mark Wood was the consumptive labourer whom I mentioned before.  He
was now rapidly wearing away.  Miss Murray, by her liberality,
obtained literally the blessing of him that was ready to perish;
for though the half-crown could be of very little service to him,
he was glad of it for the sake of his wife and children, so soon to
be widowed and fatherless.  After I had sat a few minutes, and read
a little for the comfort and edification of himself and his
afflicted wife, I left them; but I had not proceeded fifty yards
before I encountered Mr. Weston, apparently on his way to the same
abode.  He greeted me in his usual quiet, unaffected way, stopped
to inquire about the condition of the sick man and his family, and
with a sort of unconscious, brotherly disregard to ceremony took
from my hand the book out of which I had been reading, turned over
its pages, made a few brief but very sensible remarks, and restored
it; then told me about some poor sufferer he had just been
visiting, talked a little about Nancy Brown, made a few
observations upon my little rough friend the terrier, that was
frisking at his feet, and finally upon the beauty of the weather,
and departed.
I have omitted to give a detail of his words, from a notion that
they would not interest the reader as they did me, and not because
I have forgotten them.  No; I remember them well; for I thought
them over and over again in the course of that day and many
succeeding ones, I know not how often; and recalled every
intonation of his deep, clear voice, every flash of his quick,
brown eye, and every gleam of his pleasant, but too transient
smile.  Such a confession will look very absurd, I fear:  but no
matter:  I have written it:  and they that read it will not know
the writer.
While I was walking along, happy within, and pleased with all
around, Miss Murray came hastening to meet me; her buoyant step,
flushed cheek, and radiant smiles showing that she, too, was happy,
in her own way.  Running up to me, she put her arm through mine,
and without waiting to recover breath, began--'Now, Miss Grey,
think yourself highly honoured, for I'm come to tell you my news
before I've breathed a word of it to anyone else.'
'Well, what is it?'
'Oh, SUCH news!  In the first place, you must know that Mr.
Hatfield came upon me just after you were gone.  I was in such a
way for fear papa or mamma should see him; but you know I couldn't
call you back again, and so!--oh, dear!  I can't tell you all about
it now, for there's Matilda, I see, in the park, and I must go and
open my budget to her.  But, however, Hatfield was most uncommonly
audacious, unspeakably complimentary, and unprecedentedly tender--
tried to be so, at least--he didn't succeed very well in THAT,
because it's not his vein.  I'll tell you all he said another
time.'
'But what did YOU say--I'm more interested in that?'
'I'll tell you that, too, at some future period.  I happened to be
in a very good humour just then; but, though I was complaisant and
gracious enough, I took care not to compromise myself in any
possible way.  But, however, the conceited wretch chose to
interpret my amiability of temper his own way, and at length
presumed upon my indulgence so far--what do you think?--he actually
made me an offer!'
'And you--'
'I proudly drew myself up, and with the greatest coolness expressed
my astonishment at such an occurrence, and hoped he had seen
nothing in my conduct to justify his expectations.  You should have
SEEN how his countenance fell!  He went perfectly white in the
face.  I assured him that I esteemed him and all that, but could
not possibly accede to his proposals; and if I did, papa and mamma
could never be brought to give their consent.'
'"But if they could," said he, "would yours be wanting?"
'"Certainly, Mr. Hatfield," I replied, with a cool decision which
quelled all hope at once.  Oh, if you had seen how dreadfully
mortified he was--how crushed to the earth by his disappointment!
really, I almost pitied him myself.
'One more desperate attempt, however, he made.  After a silence of
considerable duration, during which he struggled to be calm, and I
to be grave--for I felt a strong propensity to laugh--which would
have ruined all--he said, with the ghost of a smile--"But tell me
plainly, Miss Murray, if I had the wealth of Sir Hugh Meltham, or
the prospects of his eldest son, would you still refuse me?  Answer
me truly, upon your honour."
'"Certainly," said I.  "That would make no difference whatever."
'It was a great lie, but he looked so confident in his own
attractions still, that I determined not to leave him one stone
upon another.  He looked me full in the face; but I kept my
countenance so well that he could not imagine I was saying anything
more than the actual truth.
'"Then it's all over, I suppose," he said, looking as if he could
have died on the spot with vexation and the intensity of his
despair.  But he was angry as well as disappointed.  There was he,
suffering so unspeakably, and there was I, the pitiless cause of it
all, so utterly impenetrable to all the artillery of his looks and
words, so calmly cold and proud, he could not but feel some
resentment; and with singular bitterness he began--"I certainly did
not expect this, Miss Murray.  I might say something about your
past conduct, and the hopes you have led me to foster, but I
forbear, on condition--"
