
'"No conditions, Mr. Hatfield!" said I, now truly indignant at his
insolence.
'"Then let me beg it as a favour," he replied, lowering his voice
at once, and taking a humbler tone:  "let me entreat that you will
not mention this affair to anyone whatever.  If you will keep
silence about it, there need be no unpleasantness on either side--
nothing, I mean, beyond what is quite unavoidable:  for my own
feelings I will endeavour to keep to myself, if I cannot annihilate
them--I will try to forgive, if I cannot forget the cause of my
sufferings.  I will not suppose, Miss Murray, that you know how
deeply you have injured me.  I would not have you aware of it; but
if, in addition to the injury you have already done me--pardon me,
but, whether innocently or not, you HAVE done it--and if you add to
it by giving publicity to this unfortunate affair, or naming it AT
ALL, you will find that I too can speak, and though you scorned my
love, you will hardly scorn my--"
'He stopped, but he bit his bloodless lip, and looked so terribly
fierce that I was quite frightened.  However, my pride upheld me
still, and I answered disdainfully; "I do not know what motive you
suppose I could have for naming it to anyone, Mr. Hatfield; but if
I were disposed to do so, you would not deter me by threats; and it
is scarcely the part of a gentleman to attempt it."
'"Pardon me, Miss Murray," said he, "I have loved you so intensely-
-I do still adore you so deeply, that I would not willingly offend
you; but though I never have loved, and never CAN love any woman as
I have loved you, it is equally certain that I never was so ill-
treated by any.  On the contrary, I have always found your sex the
kindest and most tender and obliging of God's creation, till now."
(Think of the conceited fellow saying that!)  "And the novelty and
harshness of the lesson you have taught me to-day, and the
bitterness of being disappointed in the only quarter on which the
happiness of my life depended, must excuse any appearance of
asperity.  If my presence is disagreeable to you, Miss Murray," he
said (for I was looking about me to show how little I cared for
him, so he thought I was tired of him, I suppose)--"if my presence
is disagreeable to you, Miss Murray, you have only to promise me
the favour I named, and I will relieve you at once.  There are many
ladies--some even in this parish--who would be delighted to accept
what you have so scornfully trampled under your feet.  They would
be naturally inclined to hate one whose surpassing loveliness has
so completely estranged my heart from them and blinded me to their
attractions; and a single hint of the truth from me to one of these
would be sufficient to raise such a talk against you as would
seriously injure your prospects, and diminish your chance of
success with any other gentleman you or your mamma might design to
entangle."
'"What do your mean, sir?" said I, ready to stamp with passion.
'"I mean that this affair from beginning to end appears to me like
a case of arrant flirtation, to say the least of it--such a case as
you would find it rather inconvenient to have blazoned through the
world:  especially with the additions and exaggerations of your
female rivals, who would be too glad to publish the matter, if I
only gave them a handle to it.  But I promise you, on the faith of
a gentleman, that no word or syllable that could tend to your
prejudice shall ever escape my lips, provided you will--"
'"Well, well, I won't mention it," said I.  "You may rely upon my
silence, if that can afford you any consolation."
'"You promise it?"
'"Yes," I answered; for I wanted to get rid of him now.
'"Farewell, then!" said he, in a most doleful, heart-sick tone; and
with a look where pride vainly struggled against despair, he turned
and went away:  longing, no doubt, to get home, that he might shut
himself up in his study and cry--if he doesn't burst into tears
before he gets there.'
'But you have broken your promise already,' said I, truly horrified
at her perfidy.
'Oh! it's only to you; I know you won't repeat it.'
'Certainly, I shall not:  but you say you are going to tell your
sister; and she will tell your brothers when they come home, and
Brown immediately, if you do not tell her yourself; and Brown will
blazon it, or be the means of blazoning it, throughout the
country.'
'No, indeed, she won't.  We shall not tell her at all, unless it be
under the promise of the strictest secrecy.'
'But how can you expect her to keep her promises better than her
more enlightened mistress?'
'Well, well, she shan't hear it then,' said Miss Murray, somewhat
snappishly.
'But you will tell your mamma, of course,' pursued I; 'and she will
tell your papa.'
'Of course I shall tell mamma--that is the very thing that pleases
me so much.  I shall now be able to convince her how mistaken she
was in her fears about me.'
'Oh, THAT'S it, is it?  I was wondering what it was that delighted
you so much.'
'Yes; and another thing is, that I've humbled Mr. Hatfield so
charmingly; and another--why, you must allow me some share of
female vanity:  I don't pretend to be without that most essential
attribute of our sex--and if you had seen poor Hatfield's intense
eagerness in making his ardent declaration and his flattering
proposal, and his agony of mind, that no effort of pride could
conceal, on being refused, you would have allowed I had some cause
to be gratified.'
'The greater his agony, I should think, the less your cause for
gratification.'
'Oh, nonsense!' cried the young lady, shaking herself with
vexation.  'You either can't understand me, or you won't.  If I had
not confidence in your magnanimity, I should think you envied me.
But you will, perhaps, comprehend this cause of pleasure--which is
as great as any--namely, that I am delighted with myself for my
prudence, my self-command, my heartlessness, if you please.  I was
not a bit taken by surprise, not a bit confused, or awkward, or
foolish; I just acted and spoke as I ought to have done, and was
completely my own mistress throughout.  And here was a man,
decidedly good-looking--Jane and Susan Green call him bewitchingly
handsome I suppose they're two of the ladies he pretends would be
so glad to have him; but, however, he was certainly a very clever,
witty, agreeable companion--not what you call clever, but just
enough to make him entertaining; and a man one needn't be ashamed
of anywhere, and would not soon grow tired of; and to confess the
truth, I rather liked him--better even, of late, than Harry
Meltham--and he evidently idolised me; and yet, though he came upon
me all alone and unprepared, I had the wisdom, and the pride, and
the strength to refuse him--and so scornfully and coolly as I did:
I have good reason to be proud of that.'
'And are you equally proud of having told him that his having the
wealth of Sir Hugh Meltham would make no difference to you, when
that was not the case; and of having promised to tell no one of his
misadventure, apparently without the slightest intention of keeping
your promise?'
'Of course! what else could I do?  You would not have had me--but I
see, Miss Grey, you're not in a good temper.  Here's Matilda; I'll
see what she and mamma have to say about it.'
She left me, offended at my want of sympathy, and thinking, no
doubt, that I envied her.  I did not--at least, I firmly believed I
did not.  I was sorry for her; I was amazed, disgusted at her
heartless vanity; I wondered why so much beauty should be given to
those who made so bad a use of it, and denied to some who would
make it a benefit to both themselves and others.
