
'Well, I suppose they are lively, good-tempered girls; but I
imagine you must know them better than I do, yourself, for I never
exchanged a word with either of them.'
'Indeed?  They don't strike me as being particularly reserved.'
'Very likely they are not so to people of their own class; but they
consider themselves as moving in quite a different sphere from me!'
He made no reply to this:  but after a short pause, he said,--'I
suppose it's these things, Miss Grey, that make you think you could
not live without a home?'
'Not exactly.  The fact is I am too socially disposed to be able to
live contentedly without a friend; and as the only friends I have,
or am likely to have, are at home, if it--or rather, if they were
gone--I will not say I could not live--but I would rather not live
in such a desolate world.'
'But why do you say the only friends you are likely to have?  Are
you so unsociable that you cannot make friends?'
'No, but I never made one yet; and in my present position there is
no possibility of doing so, or even of forming a common
acquaintance.  The fault may be partly in myself, but I hope not
altogether.'
'The fault is partly in society, and partly, I should think, in
your immediate neighbours:  and partly, too, in yourself; for many
ladies, in your position, would make themselves be noticed and
accounted of.  But your pupils should be companions for you in some
degree; they cannot be many years younger than yourself.'
'Oh, yes, they are good company sometimes; but I cannot call them
friends, nor would they think of bestowing such a name on me--they
have other companions better suited to their tastes.'
'Perhaps you are too wise for them.  How do you amuse yourself when
alone--do you read much?'
'Reading is my favourite occupation, when I have leisure for it and
books to read.'
From speaking of books in general, he passed to different books in
particular, and proceeded by rapid transitions from topic to topic,
till several matters, both of taste and opinion, had been discussed
considerably within the space of half an hour, but without the
embellishment of many observations from himself; he being evidently
less bent upon communicating his own thoughts and predilections,
than on discovering mine.  He had not the tact, or the art, to
effect such a purpose by skilfully drawing out my sentiments or
ideas through the real or apparent statement of his own, or leading
the conversation by imperceptible gradations to such topics as he
wished to advert to:  but such gentle abruptness, and such single-
minded straightforwardness, could not possibly offend me.
'And why should he interest himself at all in my moral and
intellectual capacities:  what is it to him what I think or feel?'
I asked myself.  And my heart throbbed in answer to the question.
But Jane and Susan Green soon reached their home.  As they stood
parleying at the park-gates, attempting to persuade Miss Murray to
come in, I wished Mr. Weston would go, that she might not see him
with me when she turned round; but, unfortunately, his business,
which was to pay one more visit to poor Mark Wood, led him to
pursue the same path as we did, till nearly the close of our
journey.  When, however, he saw that Rosalie had taken leave of her
friends and I was about to join her, he would have left me and
passed on at a quicker pace; but, as he civilly lifted his hat in
passing her, to my surprise, instead of returning the salute with a
stiff, ungracious bow, she accosted him with one of her sweetest
smiles, and, walking by his side, began to talk to him with all
imaginable cheerfulness and affability; and so we proceeded all
three together.
After a short pause in the conversation, Mr. Weston made some
remark addressed particularly to me, as referring to something we
had been talking of before; but before I could answer, Miss Murray
replied to the observation and enlarged upon it:  he rejoined; and,
from thence to the close of the interview, she engrossed him
entirely to herself.  It might be partly owing to my own stupidity,
my want of tact and assurance:  but I felt myself wronged:  I
trembled with apprehension; and I listened with envy to her easy,
rapid flow of utterance, and saw with anxiety the bright smile with
which she looked into his face from time to time:  for she was
walking a little in advance, for the purpose (as I judged) of being
seen as well as heard.  If her conversation was light and trivial,
it was amusing, and she was never at a loss for something to say,
or for suitable words to express it in.  There was nothing pert or
flippant in her manner now, as when she walked with Mr. Hatfield,
there was only a gentle, playful kind of vivacity, which I thought
must be peculiarly pleasing to a man of Mr. Weston's disposition
and temperament.
When he was gone she began to laugh, and muttered to herself, 'I
thought I could do it!'
'Do what?' I asked.
'Fix that man.'
'What in the world do you mean?'
'I mean that he will go home and dream of me.  I have shot him
through the heart!'
'How do you know?'
'By many infallible proofs:  more especially the look he gave me
when he went away.  It was not an impudent look--I exonerate him
from that--it was a look of reverential, tender adoration.  Ha, ha!
he's not quite such a stupid blockhead as I thought him!'
I made no answer, for my heart was in my throat, or something like
it, and I could not trust myself to speak.  'O God, avert it!' I
cried, internally--'for his sake, not for mine!'
Miss Murray made several trivial observations as we passed up the
park, to which (in spite of my reluctance to let one glimpse of my
feelings appear) I could only answer by monosyllables.  Whether she
intended to torment me, or merely to amuse herself, I could not
tell--and did not much care; but I thought of the poor man and his
one lamb, and the rich man with his thousand flocks; and I dreaded
I knew not what for Mr. Weston, independently of my own blighted
hopes.
Right glad was I to get into the house, and find myself alone once
more in my own room.  My first impulse was to sink into the chair
beside the bed; and laying my head on the pillow, to seek relief in
a passionate burst of tears:  there was an imperative craving for
such an indulgence; but, alas! I must restrain and swallow back my
feelings still:  there was the bell--the odious bell for the
schoolroom dinner; and I must go down with a calm face, and smile,
and laugh, and talk nonsense--yes, and eat, too, if possible, as if
all was right, and I was just returned from a pleasant walk.
