
'They're MINE,' replied he decisively.  'Come along, Miss Grey--
I'll escort you.'
When the room and books had been shown, with some bickerings
between the brother and sister that I did my utmost to appease or
mitigate, Mary Ann brought me her doll, and began to be very
loquacious on the subject of its fine clothes, its bed, its chest
of drawers, and other appurtenances; but Tom told her to hold her
clamour, that Miss Grey might see his rocking-horse, which, with a
most important bustle, he dragged forth from its corner into the
middle of the room, loudly calling on me to attend to it.  Then,
ordering his sister to hold the reins, he mounted, and made me
stand for ten minutes, watching how manfully he used his whip and
spurs.  Meantime, however, I admired Mary Ann's pretty doll, and
all its possessions; and then told Master Tom he was a capital
rider, but I hoped he would not use his whip and spurs so much when
he rode a real pony.
'Oh, yes, I will!' said he, laying on with redoubled ardour.  'I'll
cut into him like smoke!  Eeh! my word! but he shall sweat for it.'
This was very shocking; but I hoped in time to be able to work a
reformation.
'Now you must put on your bonnet and shawl,' said the little hero,
'and I'll show you my garden.'
'And MINE,' said Mary Ann.
Tom lifted his fist with a menacing gesture; she uttered a loud,
shrill scream, ran to the other side of me, and made a face at him.
'Surely, Tom, you would not strike your sister!  I hope I shall
NEVER see you do that.'
'You will sometimes:  I'm obliged to do it now and then to keep her
in order.'
'But it is not your business to keep her in order, you know--that
is for--'
'Well, now go and put on your bonnet.'
'I don't know--it is so very cloudy and cold, it seems likely to
rain;--and you know I have had a long drive.'
'No matter--you MUST come; I shall allow of no excuses,' replied
the consequential little gentleman.  And, as it was the first day
of our acquaintance, I thought I might as well indulge him.  It was
too cold for Mary Ann to venture, so she stayed with her mamma, to
the great relief of her brother, who liked to have me all to
himself.
The garden was a large one, and tastefully laid out; besides
several splendid dahlias, there were some other fine flowers still
in bloom:  but my companion would not give me time to examine them:
I must go with him, across the wet grass, to a remote sequestered
corner, the most important place in the grounds, because it
contained HIS garden.  There were two round beds, stocked with a
variety of plants.  In one there was a pretty little rose-tree.  I
paused to admire its lovely blossoms.
'Oh, never mind that!' said he, contemptuously.  'That's only Mary
Ann's garden; look, THIS is mine.'
After I had observed every flower, and listened to a disquisition
on every plant, I was permitted to depart; but first, with great
pomp, he plucked a polyanthus and presented it to me, as one
conferring a prodigious favour.  I observed, on the grass about his
garden, certain apparatus of sticks and corn, and asked what they
were.
'Traps for birds.'
'Why do you catch them?'
'Papa says they do harm.'
'And what do you do with them when you catch them?'
'Different things.  Sometimes I give them to the cat; sometimes I
cut them in pieces with my penknife; but the next, I mean to roast
alive.'
'And why do you mean to do such a horrible thing?'
'For two reasons:  first, to see how long it will live--and then,
to see what it will taste like.'
'But don't you know it is extremely wicked to do such things?
Remember, the birds can feel as well as you; and think, how would
you like it yourself?'
'Oh, that's nothing!  I'm not a bird, and I can't feel what I do to
them.'
