
'That is not the case though; if you had told her I was so busy I
could not come to see her, it would have been nearer the truth.'
'I don't think it would,' replied Miss Murray, suddenly kindling
up; 'I'm sure you have plenty of time to yourself now, when you
have so little teaching to do.'
It was no use beginning to dispute with such indulged, unreasoning
creatures:  so I held my peace.  I was accustomed, now, to keeping
silence when things distasteful to my ear were uttered; and now,
too, I was used to wearing a placid smiling countenance when my
heart was bitter within me.  Only those who have felt the like can
imagine my feelings, as I sat with an assumption of smiling
indifference, listening to the accounts of those meetings and
interviews with Mr. Weston, which they seemed to find such pleasure
in describing to me; and hearing things asserted of him which, from
the character of the man, I knew to be exaggerations and
perversions of the truth, if not entirely false--things derogatory
to him, and flattering to them--especially to Miss Murray--which I
burned to contradict, or, at least, to show my doubts about, but
dared not; lest, in expressing my disbelief, I should display my
interest too.  Other things I heard, which I felt or feared were
indeed too true:  but I must still conceal my anxiety respecting
him, my indignation against them, beneath a careless aspect;
others, again, mere hints of something said or done, which I longed
to hear more of, but could not venture to inquire.  So passed the
weary time.  I could not even comfort myself with saying, 'She will
soon be married; and then there may be hope.'
Soon after her marriage the holidays would come; and when I
returned from home, most likely, Mr. Weston would be gone, for I
was told that he and the Rector could not agree (the Rector's
fault, of course), and he was about to remove to another place.
No--besides my hope in God, my only consolation was in thinking
that, though he know it not, I was more worthy of his love than
Rosalie Murray, charming and engaging as she was; for I could
appreciate his excellence, which she could not:  I would devote my
life to the promotion of his happiness; she would destroy his
happiness for the momentary gratification of her own vanity.  'Oh,
if he could but know the difference!'  I would earnestly exclaim.
'But no!  I would not have him see my heart:  yet, if he could but
know her hollowness, her worthless, heartless frivolity, he would
then be safe, and I should be--ALMOST happy, though I might never
see him more!'
I fear, by this time, the reader is well nigh disgusted with the
folly and weakness I have so freely laid before him.  I never
disclosed it then, and would not have done so had my own sister or
my mother been with me in the house.  I was a close and resolute
dissembler--in this one case at least.  My prayers, my tears, my
wishes, fears, and lamentations, were witnessed by myself and
heaven alone.
When we are harassed by sorrows or anxieties, or long oppressed by
any powerful feelings which we must keep to ourselves, for which we
can obtain and seek no sympathy from any living creature, and which
yet we cannot, or will not wholly crush, we often naturally seek
relief in poetry--and often find it, too--whether in the effusions
of others, which seem to harmonize with our existing case, or in
our own attempts to give utterance to those thoughts and feelings
in strains less musical, perchance, but more appropriate, and
therefore more penetrating and sympathetic, and, for the time, more
soothing, or more powerful to rouse and to unburden the oppressed
and swollen heart.  Before this time, at Wellwood House and here,
when suffering from home-sick melancholy, I had sought relief twice
or thrice at this secret source of consolation; and now I flew to
it again, with greater avidity than ever, because I seemed to need
it more.  I still preserve those relics of past sufferings and
experience, like pillars of witness set up in travelling through
the vale of life, to mark particular occurrences.  The footsteps
are obliterated now; the face of the country may be changed; but
the pillar is still there, to remind me how all things were when it
was reared.  Lest the reader should be curious to see any of these
effusions, I will favour him with one short specimen:  cold and
languid as the lines may seem, it was almost a passion of grief to
which they owed their being:-
Oh, they have robbed me of the hope
My spirit held so dear;
They will not let me hear that voice
My soul delights to hear.
They will not let me see that face
I so delight to see;
And they have taken all thy smiles,
And all thy love from me.
Well, let them seize on all they can; -
One treasure still is mine, -
A heart that loves to think on thee,
And feels the worth of thine.
Yes, at least, they could not deprive me of that:  I could think of
him day and night; and I could feel that he was worthy to be
thought of.  Nobody knew him as I did; nobody could appreciate him
as I did; nobody could love him as I--could, if I might:  but there
was the evil.  What business had I to think so much of one that
never thought of me?  Was it not foolish? was it not wrong?  Yet,
if I found such deep delight in thinking of him, and if I kept
those thoughts to myself, and troubled no one else with them, where
was the harm of it? I would ask myself.  And such reasoning
prevented me from making any sufficient effort to shake off my
fetters.
But, if those thoughts brought delight, it was a painful, troubled
pleasure, too near akin to anguish; and one that did me more injury
than I was aware of.  It was an indulgence that a person of more
wisdom or more experience would doubtless have denied herself.  And
yet, how dreary to turn my eyes from the contemplation of that
bright object and force them to dwell on the dull, grey, desolate
prospect around:  the joyless, hopeless, solitary path that lay
before me.  It was wrong to be so joyless, so desponding; I should
have made God my friend, and to do His will the pleasure and the
business of my life; but faith was weak, and passion was too
strong.
In this time of trouble I had two other causes of affliction.  The
first may seem a trifle, but it cost me many a tear:  Snap, my
little dumb, rough-visaged, but bright-eyed, warm-hearted
companion, the only thing I had to love me, was taken away, and
delivered over to the tender mercies of the village rat-catcher, a
man notorious for his brutal treatment of his canine slaves.  The
other was serious enough; my letters from home gave intimation that
my father's health was worse.  No boding fears were expressed, but
I was grown timid and despondent, and could not help fearing that
some dreadful calamity awaited us there.  I seemed to see the black
clouds gathering round my native hills, and to hear the angry
muttering of a storm that was about to burst, and desolate our
hearth.
CHAPTER XVIII--MIRTH AND MOURNING
The 1st of June arrived at last:  and Rosalie Murray was transmuted
into Lady Ashby.  Most splendidly beautiful she looked in her
bridal costume.  Upon her return from church, after the ceremony,
she came flying into the schoolroom, flushed with excitement, and
laughing, half in mirth, and half in reckless desperation, as it
seemed to me.
'Now, Miss Grey, I'm Lady Ashby!' she exclaimed.  'It's done, my
fate is sealed:  there's no drawing back now.  I'm come to receive
your congratulations and bid you good-by; and then I'm off for
Paris, Rome, Naples, Switzerland, London--oh, dear! what a deal I
shall see and hear before I come back again.  But don't forget me:
I shan't forget you, though I've been a naughty girl.  Come, why
don't you congratulate me?'
'I cannot congratulate you,' I replied, 'till I know whether this
change is really for the better:  but I sincerely hope it is; and I
wish you true happiness and the best of blessings.'
'Well, good-by, the carriage is waiting, and they're calling me.'
She gave me a hasty kiss, and was hurrying away; but, suddenly
returning, embraced me with more affection than I thought her
capable of evincing, and departed with tears in her eyes.  Poor
girl!  I really loved her then; and forgave her from my heart all
the injury she had done me--and others also:  she had not half
known it, I was sure; and I prayed God to pardon her too.
