
'Didn't you see how it doubled--just like an old hare? and didn't
you hear it scream?'
'I'm happy to say I did not.'
'It cried out just like a child.'
'Poor little thing!  What will you do with it?'
'Come along--I shall leave it in the first house we come to.  I
don't want to take it home, for fear papa should scold me for
letting the dog kill it.'
Mr. Weston was now gone, and we too went on our way; but as we
returned, after having deposited the hare in a farm-house, and
demolished some spice-cake and currant-wine in exchange, we met him
returning also from the execution of his mission, whatever it might
be.  He carried in his hand a cluster of beautiful bluebells, which
he offered to me; observing, with a smile, that though he had seen
so little of me for the last two months, he had not forgotten that
bluebells were numbered among my favourite flowers.  It was done as
a simple act of goodwill, without compliment or remarkable
courtesy, or any look that could be construed into 'reverential,
tender adoration' (vide Rosalie Murray); but still, it was
something to find my unimportant saying so well remembered:  it was
something that he had noticed so accurately the time I had ceased
to be visible.
'I was told,' said he, 'that you were a perfect bookworm, Miss
Grey:  so completely absorbed in your studies that you were lost to
every other pleasure.'
'Yes, and it's quite true!' cried Matilda.
'No, Mr. Weston:  don't believe it:  it's a scandalous libel.
These young ladies are too fond of making random assertions at the
expense of their friends; and you ought to be careful how you
listen to them.'
'I hope THIS assertion is groundless, at any rate.'
'Why?  Do you particularly object to ladies studying?'
'No; but I object to anyone so devoting himself or herself to
study, as to lose sight of everything else.  Except under peculiar
circumstances, I consider very close and constant study as a waste
of time, and an injury to the mind as well as the body.'
'Well, I have neither the time nor the inclination for such
transgressions.'
We parted again.
Well! what is there remarkable in all this?  Why have I recorded
it?  Because, reader, it was important enough to give me a cheerful
evening, a night of pleasing dreams, and a morning of felicitous
hopes.  Shallow-brained cheerfulness, foolish dreams, unfounded
hopes, you would say; and I will not venture to deny it:
suspicions to that effect arose too frequently in my own mind.  But
our wishes are like tinder:  the flint and steel of circumstances
are continually striking out sparks, which vanish immediately,
unless they chance to fall upon the tinder of our wishes; then,
they instantly ignite, and the flame of hope is kindled in a
moment.
But alas! that very morning, my flickering flame of hope was
dismally quenched by a letter from my mother, which spoke so
seriously of my father's increasing illness, that I feared there
was little or no chance of his recovery; and, close at hand as the
holidays were, I almost trembled lest they should come too late for
me to meet him in this world.  Two days after, a letter from Mary
told me his life was despaired of, and his end seemed fast
approaching.  Then, immediately, I sought permission to anticipate
the vacation, and go without delay.  Mrs. Murray stared, and
wondered at the unwonted energy and boldness with which I urged the
request, and thought there was no occasion to hurry; but finally
gave me leave:  stating, however, that there was 'no need to be in
such agitation about the matter--it might prove a false alarm after
all; and if not--why, it was only in the common course of nature:
we must all die some time; and I was not to suppose myself the only
afflicted person in the world;' and concluding with saying I might
have the phaeton to take me to O-.  'And instead of REPINING, Miss
Grey, be thankful for the PRIVILEGES you enjoy.  There's many a
poor clergyman whose family would be plunged into ruin by the event
of his death; but you, you see, have influential friends ready to
continue their patronage, and to show you every consideration.'
I thanked her for her 'consideration,' and flew to my room to make
some hurried preparations for my departure.  My bonnet and shawl
being on, and a few things hastily crammed into my largest trunk, I
descended.  But I might have done the work more leisurely, for no
one else was in a hurry; and I had still a considerable time to
wait for the phaeton.  At length it came to the door, and I was
off:  but, oh, what a dreary journey was that! how utterly
different from my former passages homewards!  Being too late for
the last coach to -, I had to hire a cab for ten miles, and then a
car to take me over the rugged hills.
It was half-past ten before I reached home.  They were not in bed.
My mother and sister both met me in the passage--sad--silent--pale!
I was so much shocked and terror-stricken that I could not speak,
to ask the information I so much longed yet dreaded to obtain.
'Agnes!' said my mother, struggling to repress some strong emotion.
'Oh, Agnes!' cried Mary, and burst into tears.
'How is he?' I asked, gasping for the answer.
'Dead!'
It was the reply I had anticipated:  but the shock seemed none the
less tremendous.
