
CHAPTER XIX--THE LETTER
My father's mortal remains had been consigned to the tomb; and we,
with sad faces and sombre garments, sat lingering over the frugal
breakfast-table, revolving plans for our future life.  My mother's
strong mind had not given way beneath even this affliction:  her
spirit, though crushed, was not broken.  Mary's wish was that I
should go back to Horton Lodge, and that our mother should come and
live with her and Mr. Richardson at the vicarage:  she affirmed
that he wished it no less than herself, and that such an
arrangement could not fail to benefit all parties; for my mother's
society and experience would be of inestimable value to them, and
they would do all they could to make her happy.  But no arguments
or entreaties could prevail:  my mother was determined not to go.
Not that she questioned, for a moment, the kind wishes and
intentions of her daughter; but she affirmed that so long as God
spared her health and strength, she would make use of them to earn
her own livelihood, and be chargeable to no one; whether her
dependence would be felt as a burden or not.  If she could afford
to reside as a lodger in--vicarage, she would choose that house
before all others as the place of her abode; but not being so
circumstanced, she would never come under its roof, except as an
occasional visitor:  unless sickness or calamity should render her
assistance really needful, or until age or infirmity made her
incapable of maintaining herself.
'No, Mary,' said she, 'if Richardson and you have anything to
spare, you must lay it aside for your family; and Agnes and I must
gather honey for ourselves.  Thanks to my having had daughters to
educate, I have not forgotten my accomplishments.  God willing, I
will check this vain repining,' she said, while the tears coursed
one another down her cheeks in spite of her efforts; but she wiped
them away, and resolutely shaking back her head, continued, 'I will
exert myself, and look out for a small house, commodiously situated
in some populous but healthy district, where we will take a few
young ladies to board and educate--if we can get them--and as many
day pupils as will come, or as we can manage to instruct.  Your
father's relations and old friends will be able to send us some
pupils, or to assist us with their recommendations, no doubt:  I
shall not apply to my own.  What say you to it, Agnes? will you be
willing to leave your present situation and try?'
'Quite willing, mamma; and the money I have saved will do to
furnish the house.  It shall be taken from the bank directly.'
'When it is wanted:  we must get the house, and settle on
preliminaries first.'
Mary offered to lend the little she possessed; but my mother
declined it, saying that we must begin on an economical plan; and
she hoped that the whole or part of mine, added to what we could
get by the sale of the furniture, and what little our dear papa had
contrived to lay aside for her since the debts were paid, would be
sufficient to last us till Christmas; when, it was hoped, something
would accrue from our united labours.  It was finally settled that
this should be our plan; and that inquiries and preparations should
immediately be set on foot; and while my mother busied herself with
these, I should return to Horton Lodge at the close of my four
weeks' vacation, and give notice for my final departure when things
were in train for the speedy commencement of our school.
We were discussing these affairs on the morning I have mentioned,
about a fortnight after my father's death, when a letter was
brought in for my mother, on beholding which the colour mounted to
her face--lately pale enough with anxious watchings and excessive
sorrow.  'From my father!' murmured she, as she hastily tore off
the cover.  It was many years since she had heard from any of her
own relations before.  Naturally wondering what the letter might
contain, I watched her countenance while she read it, and was
somewhat surprised to see her bite her lip and knit her brows as if
in anger.  When she had done, she somewhat irreverently cast it on
the table, saying with a scornful smile,--'Your grandpapa has been
so kind as to write to me.  He says he has no doubt I have long
repented of my "unfortunate marriage," and if I will only
acknowledge this, and confess I was wrong in neglecting his advice,
and that I have justly suffered for it, he will make a lady of me
once again--if that be possible after my long degradation--and
remember my girls in his will.  Get my desk, Agnes, and send these
things away:  I will answer the letter directly.  But first, as I
may be depriving you both of a legacy, it is just that I should
tell you what I mean to say.  I shall say that he is mistaken in
supposing that I can regret the birth of my daughters (who have
been the pride of my life, and are likely to be the comfort of my
old age), or the thirty years I have passed in the company of my
best and dearest friend;--that, had our misfortunes been three
times as great as they were (unless they had been of my bringing
on), I should still the more rejoice to have shared them with your
father, and administered what consolation I was able; and, had his
sufferings in illness been ten times what they wore, I could not
regret having watched over and laboured to relieve them;--that, if
he had married a richer wife, misfortunes and trials would no doubt
have come upon him still; while I am egotist enough to imagine that
no other woman could have cheered him through them so well:  not
that I am superior to the rest, but I was made for him, and he for
me; and I can no more repent the hours, days, years of happiness we
have spent together, and which neither could have had without the
other, than I can the privilege of having been his nurse in
sickness, and his comfort in affliction.
'Will this do, children?--or shall I say we are all very sorry for
what has happened during the last thirty years, and my daughters
wish they had never been born; but since they have had that
misfortune, they will be thankful for any trifle their grandpapa
will be kind enough to bestow?'
Of course, we both applauded our mother's resolution; Mary cleared
away the breakfast things; I brought the desk; the letter was
quickly written and despatched; and, from that day, we heard no
more of our grandfather, till we saw his death announced in the
newspaper a considerable time after--all his worldly possessions,
of course, being left to our wealthy unknown cousins.
CHAPTER XX--THE FAREWELL
A house in A---, the fashionable watering-place, was hired for our
seminary; and a promise of two or three pupils was obtained to
commence with.  I returned to Horton Lodge about the middle of
July, leaving my mother to conclude the bargain for the house, to
obtain more pupils, to sell off the furniture of our old abode, and
to fit out the new one.
We often pity the poor, because they have no leisure to mourn their
departed relatives, and necessity obliges them to labour through
their severest afflictions:  but is not active employment the best
remedy for overwhelming sorrow--the surest antidote for despair?
It may be a rough comforter:  it may seem hard to be harassed with
the cares of life when we have no relish for its enjoyments; to be
goaded to labour when the heart is ready to break, and the vexed
spirit implores for rest only to weep in silence:  but is not
labour better than the rest we covet? and are not those petty,
tormenting cares less hurtful than a continual brooding over the
great affliction that oppresses us?  Besides, we cannot have cares,
and anxieties, and toil, without hope--if it be but the hope of
fulfilling our joyless task, accomplishing some needful project, or
escaping some further annoyance.  At any rate, I was glad my mother
had so much employment for every faculty of her action-loving
frame.  Our kind neighbours lamented that she, once so exalted in
wealth and station, should be reduced to such extremity in her time
of sorrow; but I am persuaded that she would have suffered thrice
as much had she been left in affluence, with liberty to remain in
that house, the scene of her early happiness and late affliction,
and no stern necessity to prevent her from incessantly brooding
over and lamenting her bereavement.
I will not dilate upon the feelings with which I left the old
house, the well-known garden, the little village church--then
doubly dear to me, because my father, who, for thirty years, had
taught and prayed within its walls, lay slumbering now beneath its
flags--and the old bare hills, delightful in their very desolation,
with the narrow vales between, smiling in green wood and sparkling
water--the house where I was born, the scene of all my early
associations, the place where throughout life my earthly affections
had been centred;--and left them to return no more!  True, I was
going back to Horton Lodge, where, amid many evils, one source of
pleasure yet remained:  but it was pleasure mingled with excessive
pain; and my stay, alas! was limited to six weeks.  And even of
that precious time, day after day slipped by and I did not see him:
except at church, I never saw him for a fortnight after my return.
It seemed a long time to me:  and, as I was often out with my
rambling pupil, of course hopes would keep rising, and
disappointments would ensue; and then, I would say to my own heart,
'Here is a convincing proof--if you would but have the sense to see
it, or the candour to acknowledge it--that he does not care for
you.  If he only thought HALF as much about you as you do about
him, he would have contrived to meet you many times ere this:  you
must know that, by consulting your own feelings.  Therefore, have
done with this nonsense:  you have no ground for hope:  dismiss, at
once, these hurtful thoughts and foolish wishes from your mind, and
turn to your own duty, and the dull blank life that lies before
you.  You might have known such happiness was not for you.'
But I saw him at last.  He came suddenly upon me as I was crossing
a field in returning from a visit to Nancy Brown, which I had taken
the opportunity of paying while Matilda Murray was riding her
matchless mare.  He must have heard of the heavy loss I had
sustained:  he expressed no sympathy, offered no condolence:  but
almost the first words he uttered were,--'How is your mother?'  And
this was no matter-of-course question, for I never told him that I
had a mother:  he must have learned the fact from others, if he
knew it at all; and, besides, there was sincere goodwill, and even
deep, touching, unobtrusive sympathy in the tone and manner of the
inquiry.  I thanked him with due civility, and told him she was as
well as could be expected.  'What will she do?' was the next
question.  Many would have deemed it an impertinent one, and given
an evasive reply; but such an idea never entered my head, and I
gave a brief but plain statement of my mother's plans and
prospects.
'Then you will leave this place shortly?' said he.
'Yes, in a month.'
He paused a minute, as if in thought.  When he spoke again, I hoped
it would be to express his concern at my departure; but it was only
to say,--'I should think you will be willing enough to go?'
'Yes--for some things,' I replied.
