
'If I didn't sit with her in the drawing-room while Sir Thomas is
taking his wine,' said she, 'she would never forgive me; and then,
if I leave the room the instant he comes--as I have done once or
twice--it is an unpardonable offence against her dear Thomas.  SHE
never showed such disrespect to HER husband:  and as for affection,
wives never think of that now-a-days, she supposes:  but things
were different in HER time--as if there was any good to be done by
staying in the room, when he does nothing but grumble and scold
when he's in a bad humour, talk disgusting nonsense when he's in a
good one, and go to sleep on the sofa when he's too stupid for
either; which is most frequently the case now, when he has nothing
to do but to sot over his wine.'
'But could you not try to occupy his mind with something better;
and engage him to give up such habits?  I'm sure you have powers of
persuasion, and qualifications for amusing a gentleman, which many
ladies would be glad to possess.'
'And so you think I would lay myself out for his amusement!  No:
that's not MY idea of a wife.  It's the husband's part to please
the wife, not hers to please him; and if he isn't satisfied with
her as she is--and thankful to possess her too--he isn't worthy of
her, that's all.  And as for persuasion, I assure you I shan't
trouble myself with that:  I've enough to do to bear with him as he
is, without attempting to work a reform.  But I'm sorry I left you
so long alone, Miss Grey.  How have you passed the time?'
'Chiefly in watching the rooks.'
'Mercy, how dull you must have been!  I really must show you the
library; and you must ring for everything you want, just as you
would in an inn, and make yourself comfortable.  I have selfish
reasons for wishing to make you happy, because I want you to stay
with me, and not fulfil your horrid threat of running away in a day
or two.'
'Well, don't let me keep you out of the drawing-room any longer to-
night, for at present I am tired and wish to go to bed.'
CHAPTER XXIII--THE PARK
I came down a little before eight, next morning, as I knew by the
striking of a distant clock.  There was no appearance of breakfast.
I waited above an hour before it came, still vainly longing for
access to the library; and, after that lonely repast was concluded,
I waited again about an hour and a half in great suspense and
discomfort, uncertain what to do.  At length Lady Ashby came to bid
me good-morning.  She informed me she had only just breakfasted,
and now wanted me to take an early walk with her in the park.  She
asked how long I had been up, and on receiving my answer, expressed
the deepest regret, and again promised to show me the library.  I
suggested she had better do so at once, and then there would be no
further trouble either with remembering or forgetting.  She
complied, on condition that I would not think of reading, or
bothering with the books now; for she wanted to show me the
gardens, and take a walk in the park with me, before it became too
hot for enjoyment; which, indeed, was nearly the case already.  Of
course I readily assented; and we took our walk accordingly.
As we were strolling in the park, talking of what my companion had
seen and heard during her travelling experience, a gentleman on
horseback rode up and passed us.  As he turned, in passing, and
stared me full in the face, I had a good opportunity of seeing what
he was like.  He was tall, thin, and wasted, with a slight stoop in
the shoulders, a pale face, but somewhat blotchy, and disagreeably
red about the eyelids, plain features, and a general appearance of
languor and flatness, relieved by a sinister expression in the
mouth and the dull, soulless eyes.
'I detest that man!' whispered Lady Ashby, with bitter emphasis, as
he slowly trotted by.
'Who is it?' I asked, unwilling to suppose that she should so speak
of her husband.
'Sir Thomas Ashby,' she replied, with dreary composure.
'And do you DETEST him, Miss Murray?' said I, for I was too much
shocked to remember her name at the moment.
'Yes, I do, Miss Grey, and despise him too; and if you knew him you
would not blame me.'
'But you knew what he was before you married him.'
'No; I only thought so:  I did not half know him really.  I know
you warned me against it, and I wish I had listened to you:  but
it's too late to regret that now.  And besides, mamma ought to have
known better than either of us, and she never said anything against
it--quite the contrary.  And then I thought he adored me, and would
let me have my own way:  he did pretend to do so at first, but now
he does not care a bit about me.  Yet I should not care for that:
he might do as he pleased, if I might only be free to amuse myself
and to stay in London, or have a few friends down here:  but HE
WILL do as he pleases, and I must be a prisoner and a slave.  The
moment he saw I could enjoy myself without him, and that others
knew my value better than himself, the selfish wretch began to
accuse me of coquetry and extravagance; and to abuse Harry Meltham,
whose shoes he was not worthy to clean.  And then he must needs
have me down in the country, to lead the life of a nun, lest I
should dishonour him or bring him to ruin; as if he had not been
ten times worse every way, with his betting-book, and his gaming-
table, and his opera-girls, and his Lady This and Mrs. That--yes,
and his bottles of wine, and glasses of brandy-and-water too!  Oh,
I would give ten thousand worlds to be Mss Murray again!  It is TOO
bad to feel life, health, and beauty wasting away, unfelt and
unenjoyed, for such a brute as that!' exclaimed she, fairly
bursting into tears in the bitterness of her vexation.
Of course, I pitied her exceedingly; as well for her false idea of
happiness and disregard of duty, as for the wretched partner with
whom her fate was linked.  I said what I could to comfort her, and
offered such counsels as I thought she most required:  advising
her, first, by gentle reasoning, by kindness, example, and
persuasion, to try to ameliorate her husband; and then, when she
had done all she could, if she still found him incorrigible, to
endeavour to abstract herself from him--to wrap herself up in her
own integrity, and trouble herself as little about him as possible.
I exhorted her to seek consolation in doing her duty to God and
man, to put her trust in Heaven, and solace herself with the care
and nurture of her little daughter; assuring her she would be amply
rewarded by witnessing its progress in strength and wisdom, and
receiving its genuine affection.
'But I can't devote myself entirely to a child,' said she; 'it may
die--which is not at all improbable.'
'But, with care, many a delicate infant has become a strong man or
woman.'
'But it may grow so intolerably like its father that I shall hate
it.'
'That is not likely; it is a little girl, and strongly resembles
its mother.'
