
'No matter; I should like it better if it were a boy--only that its
father will leave it no inheritance that he can possibly squander
away.  What pleasure can I have in seeing a girl grow up to eclipse
me, and enjoy those pleasures that I am for ever debarred from?
But supposing I could be so generous as to take delight in this,
still it is ONLY a child; and I can't centre all my hopes in a
child:  that is only one degree better than devoting oneself to a
dog.  And as for all the wisdom and goodness you have been trying
to instil into me--that is all very right and proper, I daresay,
and if I were some twenty years older, I might fructify by it:  but
people must enjoy themselves when they are young; and if others
won't let them--why, they must hate them for it!'
'The best way to enjoy yourself is to do what is right and hate
nobody.  The end of Religion is not to teach us how to die, but how
to live; and the earlier you become wise and good, the more of
happiness you secure.  And now, Lady Ashby, I have one more piece
of advice to offer you, which is, that you will not make an enemy
of your mother-in-law.  Don't get into the way of holding her at
arms' length, and regarding her with jealous distrust.  I never saw
her, but I have heard good as well as evil respecting her; and I
imagine that, though cold and haughty in her general demeanour, and
even exacting in her requirements, she has strong affections for
those who can reach them; and, though so blindly attached to her
son, she is not without good principles, or incapable of hearing
reason.  If you would but conciliate her a little, and adopt a
friendly, open manner--and even confide your grievances to her--
real grievances, such as you have a right to complain of--it is my
firm belief that she would, in time, become your faithful friend,
and a comfort and support to you, instead of the incubus you
describe her.'  But I fear my advice had little effect upon the
unfortunate young lady; and, finding I could render myself so
little serviceable, my residence at Ashby Park became doubly
painful.  But still, I must stay out that day and the following
one, as I had promised to do so:  though, resisting all entreaties
and inducements to prolong my visit further, I insisted upon
departing the next morning; affirming that my mother would be
lonely without me, and that she impatiently expected my return.
Nevertheless, it was with a heavy heart that I bade adieu to poor
Lady Ashby, and left her in her princely home.  It was no slight
additional proof of her unhappiness, that she should so cling to
the consolation of my presence, and earnestly desire the company of
one whose general tastes and ideas were so little congenial to her
own--whom she had completely forgotten in her hour of prosperity,
and whose presence would be rather a nuisance than a pleasure, if
she could but have half her heart's desire.
CHAPTER XXIV--THE SANDS
Our school was not situated in the heart of the town:  on entering
A--- from the north-west there is a row of respectable-looking
houses, on each side of the broad, white road, with narrow slips of
garden-ground before them, Venetian blinds to the windows, and a
flight of steps leading to each trim, brass-handled door.  In one
of the largest of these habitations dwelt my mother and I, with
such young ladies as our friends and the public chose to commit to
our charge.  Consequently, we were a considerable distance from the
sea, and divided from it by a labyrinth of streets and houses.  But
the sea was my delight; and I would often gladly pierce the town to
obtain the pleasure of a walk beside it, whether with the pupils,
or alone with my mother during the vacations.  It was delightful to
me at all times and seasons, but especially in the wild commotion
of a rough sea-breeze, and in the brilliant freshness of a summer
morning.
I awoke early on the third morning after my return from Ashby Park-
-the sun was shining through the blind, and I thought how pleasant
it would be to pass through the quiet town and take a solitary
ramble on the sands while half the world was in bed.  I was not
long in forming the resolution, nor slow to act upon it.  Of course
I would not disturb my mother, so I stole noiselessly downstairs,
and quietly unfastened the door.  I was dressed and out, when the
church clock struck a quarter to six.  There was a feeling of
freshness and vigour in the very streets; and when I got free of
the town, when my foot was on the sands and my face towards the
broad, bright bay, no language can describe the effect of the deep,
clear azure of the sky and ocean, the bright morning sunshine on
the semicircular barrier of craggy cliffs surmounted by green
swelling hills, and on the smooth, wide sands, and the low rocks
out at sea--looking, with their clothing of weeds and moss, like
little grass-grown islands--and above all, on the brilliant,
sparkling waves.  And then, the unspeakable purity--and freshness
of the air!  There was just enough heat to enhance the value of the
breeze, and just enough wind to keep the whole sea in motion, to
make the waves come bounding to the shore, foaming and sparkling,
as if wild with glee.  Nothing else was stirring--no living
creature was visible besides myself.  My footsteps were the first
to press the firm, unbroken sands;--nothing before had trampled
them since last night's flowing tide had obliterated the deepest
marks of yesterday, and left them fair and even, except where the
subsiding water had left behind it the traces of dimpled pools and
little running streams.
Refreshed, delighted, invigorated, I walked along, forgetting all
my cares, feeling as if I had wings to my feet, and could go at
least forty miles without fatigue, and experiencing a sense of
exhilaration to which I had been an entire stranger since the days
of early youth.  About half-past six, however, the grooms began to
come down to air their masters' horses--first one, and then
another, till there were some dozen horses and five or six riders:
but that need not trouble me, for they would not come as far as the
low rocks which I was now approaching.  When I had reached these,
and walked over the moist, slippery sea-weed (at the risk of
floundering into one of the numerous pools of clear, salt water
that lay between them), to a little mossy promontory with the sea
splashing round it, I looked back again to see who next was
stirring.  Still, there were only the early grooms with their
horses, and one gentleman with a little dark speck of a dog running
before him, and one water-cart coming out of the town to get water
for the baths.  In another minute or two, the distant bathing
machines would begin to move, and then the elderly gentlemen of
regular habits and sober quaker ladies would be coming to take
their salutary morning walks.  But however interesting such a scene
might be, I could not wait to witness it, for the sun and the sea
so dazzled my eyes in that direction, that I could but afford one
glance; and then I turned again to delight myself with the sight
and the sound of the sea, dashing against my promontory--with no
prodigious force, for the swell was broken by the tangled sea-weed
and the unseen rocks beneath; otherwise I should soon have been
deluged with spray.  But the tide was coming in; the water was
rising; the gulfs and lakes were filling; the straits were
widening:  it was time to seek some safer footing; so I walked,
skipped, and stumbled back to the smooth, wide sands, and resolved
to proceed to a certain bold projection in the cliffs, and then
return.
Presently, I heard a snuffling sound behind me and then a dog came
frisking and wriggling to my feet.  It was my own Snap--the little
dark, wire-haired terrier!  When I spoke his name, he leapt up in
my face and yelled for joy.  Almost as much delighted as himself, I
caught the little creature in my arms, and kissed him repeatedly.
But how came he to be there?  He could not have dropped from the
sky, or come all that way alone:  it must be either his master, the
rat-catcher, or somebody else that had brought him; so, repressing
my extravagant caresses, and endeavouring to repress his likewise,
I looked round, and beheld--Mr. Weston!
'Your dog remembers you well, Miss Grey,' said he, warmly grasping
the hand I offered him without clearly knowing what I was about.
'You rise early.'
'Not often so early as this,' I replied, with amazing composure,
considering all the circumstances of the case.
'How far do you purpose to extend your walk?'
'I was thinking of returning--it must be almost time, I think.'
He consulted his watch--a gold one now--and told me it was only
five minutes past seven.
'But, doubtless, you have had a long enough walk,' said he, turning
towards the town, to which I now proceeded leisurely to retrace my
steps; and he walked beside me.
'In what part of the town do you live?' asked he.  'I never could
discover.'
Never could discover?  Had he endeavoured to do so then?  I told
him the place of our abode.  He asked how we prospered in our
affairs.  I told him we were doing very well--that we had had a
considerable addition to our pupils after the Christmas vacation,
and expected a still further increase at the close of this.
'You must be an accomplished instructor,' he observed.
'No, it is my mother,' I replied; 'she manages things so well, and
is so active, and clever, and kind.'
'I should like to know your mother.  Will you introduce me to her
some time, if I call?'
'Yes, willingly.'
'And will you allow me the privilege of an old friend, of looking
in upon you now and then?'
'Yes, if--I suppose so.'
