
'But you will have to feel it some time, Tom:  you have heard where
wicked people go to when they die; and if you don't leave off
torturing innocent birds, remember, you will have to go there, and
suffer just what you have made them suffer.'
'Oh, pooh!  I shan't.  Papa knows how I treat them, and he never
blames me for it:  he says it is just what HE used to do when HE
was a boy.  Last summer, he gave me a nest full of young sparrows,
and he saw me pulling off their legs and wings, and heads, and
never said anything; except that they were nasty things, and I must
not let them soil my trousers:  end Uncle Robson was there too, and
he laughed, and said I was a fine boy.'
'But what would your mamma say?'
'Oh, she doesn't care! she says it's a pity to kill the pretty
singing birds, but the naughty sparrows, and mice, and rats, I may
do what I like with.  So now, Miss Grey, you see it is NOT wicked.'
'I still think it is, Tom; and perhaps your papa and mamma would
think so too, if they thought much about it.  However,' I
internally added, 'they may say what they please, but I am
determined you shall do nothing of the kind, as long as I have
power to prevent it.'
He next took me across the lawn to see his mole-traps, and then
into the stack-yard to see his weasel-traps:  one of which, to his
great joy, contained a dead weasel; and then into the stable to
see, not the fine carriage-horses, but a little rough colt, which
he informed me had been bred on purpose for him, and he was to ride
it as soon as it was properly trained.  I tried to amuse the little
fellow, and listened to all his chatter as complacently as I could;
for I thought if he had any affections at all, I would endeavour to
win them; and then, in time, I might be able to show him the error
of his ways:  but I looked in vain for that generous, noble spirit
his mother talked of; though I could see he was not without a
certain degree of quickness and penetration, when he chose to exert
it.
When we re-entered the house it was nearly tea-time.  Master Tom
told me that, as papa was from home, he and I and Mary Ann were to
have tea with mamma, for a treat; for, on such occasions, she
always dined at luncheon-time with them, instead of at six o'clock.
Soon after tea, Mary Ann went to bed, but Tom favoured us with his
company and conversation till eight.  After he was gone, Mrs.
Bloomfield further enlightened me on the subject of her children's
dispositions and acquirements, and on what they were to learn, and
how they were to be managed, and cautioned me to mention their
defects to no one but herself.  My mother had warned me before to
mention them as little as possible to HER, for people did not like
to be told of their children's faults, and so I concluded I was to
keep silence on them altogether.  About half-past nine, Mrs.
Bloomfield invited me to partake of a frugal supper of cold meat
and bread.  I was glad when that was over, and she took her bedroom
candlestick and retired to rest; for though I wished to be pleased
with her, her company was extremely irksome to me; and I could not
help feeling that she was cold, grave, and forbidding--the very
opposite of the kind, warm-hearted matron my hopes had depicted her
to be.
CHAPTER III--A FEW MORE LESSONS
I rose next morning with a feeling of hopeful exhilaration, in
spite of the disappointments already experienced; but I found the
dressing of Mary Ann was no light matter, as her abundant hair was
to be smeared with pomade, plaited in three long tails, and tied
with bows of ribbon:  a task my unaccustomed fingers found great
difficulty in performing.  She told me her nurse could do it in
half the time, and, by keeping up a constant fidget of impatience,
contrived to render me still longer.  When all was done, we went
into the schoolroom, where I met my other pupil, and chatted with
the two till it was time to go down to breakfast.  That meal being
concluded, and a few civil words having been exchanged with Mrs.
Bloomfield, we repaired to the schoolroom again, and commenced the
business of the day.  I found my pupils very backward, indeed; but
Tom, though averse to every species of mental exertion, was not
without abilities.  Mary Ann could scarcely read a word, and was so
careless and inattentive that I could hardly get on with her at
all.  However, by dint of great labour and patience, I managed to
get something done in the course of the morning, and then
accompanied my young charge out into the garden and adjacent
grounds, for a little recreation before dinner.  There we got along
tolerably together, except that I found they had no notion of going
with me:  I must go with them, wherever they chose to lead me.  I
must run, walk, or stand, exactly as it suited their fancy.  This,
I thought, was reversing the order of things; and I found it doubly
disagreeable, as on this as well as subsequent occasions, they
seemed to prefer the dirtiest places and the most dismal
occupations.  But there was no remedy; either I must follow them,
or keep entirely apart from them, and thus appear neglectful of my
charge.  To-day, they manifested a particular attachment to a well
at the bottom of the lawn, where they persisted in dabbling with
sticks and pebbles for above half an hour.  I was in constant fear
that their mother would see them from the window, and blame me for
allowing them thus to draggle their clothes and wet their feet and
hands, instead of taking exercise; but no arguments, commands, or
entreaties could draw them away.  If SHE did not see them, some one
else did--a gentleman on horseback had entered the gate and was
proceeding up the road; at the distance of a few paces from us he
paused, and calling to the children in a waspish penetrating tone,
bade them 'keep out of that water.'  'Miss Grey,' said he, '(I
suppose it IS Miss Grey), I am surprised that you should allow them
to dirty their clothes in that manner!  Don't you see how Miss
Bloomfield has soiled her frock? and that Master Bloomfield's socks
are quite wet? and both of them without gloves?  Dear, dear!  Let
me REQUEST that in future you will keep them DECENT at least!' so
saying, he turned away, and continued his ride up to the house.
This was Mr. Bloomfield.  I was surprised that he should nominate
his children Master and Miss Bloomfield; and still more so, that he
should speak so uncivilly to me, their governess, and a perfect
stranger to himself.  Presently the bell rang to summon us in.  I
dined with the children at one, while he and his lady took their
luncheon at the same table.  His conduct there did not greatly
raise him in my estimation.  He was a man of ordinary stature--
rather below than above--and rather thin than stout, apparently
between thirty and forty years of age:  he had a large mouth, pale,
dingy complexion, milky blue eyes, and hair the colour of a hempen
cord.  There was a roast leg of mutton before him:  he helped Mrs.
Bloomfield, the children, and me, desiring me to cut up the
children's meat; then, after twisting about the mutton in various
directions, and eyeing it from different points, he pronounced it
not fit to be eaten, and called for the cold beef.
'What is the matter with the mutton, my dear?' asked his mate.
'It is quite overdone.  Don't you taste, Mrs. Bloomfield, that all
the goodness is roasted out of it?  And can't you see that all that
nice, red gravy is completely dried away?'
'Well, I think the BEEF will suit you.'
The beef was set before him, and he began to carve, but with the
most rueful expressions of discontent.
'What is the matter with the BEEF, Mr. Bloomfield?  I'm sure I
thought it was very nice.'
'And so it WAS very nice.  A nicer joint could not be; but it is
QUITE spoiled,' replied he, dolefully.
'How so?'
'How so!  Why, don't you see how it is cut?  Dear--dear! it is
quite shocking!'
'They must have cut it wrong in the kitchen, then, for I'm sure I
carved it quite properly here, yesterday.'
'No DOUBT they cut it wrong in the kitchen--the savages!  Dear--
dear!  Did ever any one see such a fine piece of beef so completely
ruined?  But remember that, in future, when a decent dish leaves
this table, they shall not TOUCH it in the kitchen.  Remember THAT,
Mrs. Bloomfield!'
Notwithstanding the ruinous state of the beef, the gentleman
managed to out himself some delicate slices, part of which he ate
in silence.  When he next spoke, it was, in a less querulous tone,
to ask what there was for dinner.
'Turkey and grouse,' was the concise reply.
