
'Well, Agnes, you must not take such long walks again before
breakfast,' said my mother, observing that I drank an extra cup of
coffee and ate nothing--pleading the heat of the weather, and the
fatigue of my long walk as an excuse.  I certainly did feel
feverish and tired too.
'You always do things by extremes:  now, if you had taken a SHORT
walk every morning, and would continue to do so, it would do you
good.'
'Well, mamma, I will.'
'But this is worse than lying in bed or bending over your books:
you have quite put yourself into a fever.'
'I won't do it again,' said I.
I was racking my brains with thinking how to tell her about Mr.
Weston, for she must know he was coming to-morrow.  However, I
waited till the breakfast things were removed, and I was more calm
and cool; and then, having sat down to my drawing, I began--'I met
an old friend on the sands to-day, mamma.'
'An old friend!  Who could it be?'
'Two old friends, indeed.  One was a dog;' and then I reminded her
of Snap, whose history I had recounted before, and related the
incident of his sudden appearance and remarkable recognition; 'and
the other,' continued I, 'was Mr. Weston, the curate of Horton.'
'Mr. Weston!  I never heard of him before.'
'Yes, you have:  I've mentioned him several times, I believe:  but
you don't remember.'
'I've heard you speak of Mr. Hatfield.'
'Mr. Hatfield was the rector, and Mr. Weston the curate:  I used to
mention him sometimes in contradistinction to Mr. Hatfield, as
being a more efficient clergyman.  However, he was on the sands
this morning with the dog--he had bought it, I suppose, from the
rat-catcher; and he knew me as well as it did--probably through its
means:  and I had a little conversation with him, in the course of
which, as he asked about our school, I was led to say something
about you, and your good management; and he said he should like to
know you, and asked if I would introduce him to you, if he should
take the liberty of calling to-morrow; so I said I would.  Was I
right?'
'Of course.  What kind of a man is he?'
'A very RESPECTABLE man, I think:  but you will see him to-morrow.
He is the new vicar of F---, and as he has only been there a few
weeks, I suppose he has made no friends yet, and wants a little
society.'
The morrow came.  What a fever of anxiety and expectation I was in
from breakfast till noon--at which time he made his appearance!
Having introduced him to my mother, I took my work to the window,
and sat down to await the result of the interview.  They got on
extremely well together--greatly to my satisfaction, for I had felt
very anxious about what my mother would think of him.  He did not
stay long that time:  but when he rose to take leave, she said she
should be happy to see him, whenever he might find it convenient to
call again; and when he was gone, I was gratified by hearing her
say,--'Well!  I think he's a very sensible man.  But why did you
sit back there, Agnes,' she added, 'and talk so little?'
'Because you talked so well, mamma, I thought you required no
assistance from me:  and, besides, he was your visitor, not mine.'
After that, he often called upon us--several times in the course of
a week.  He generally addressed most of his conversation to my
mother:  and no wonder, for she could converse.  I almost envied
the unfettered, vigorous fluency of her discourse, and the strong
sense evinced by everything she said--and yet, I did not; for,
though I occasionally regretted my own deficiencies for his sake,
it gave me very great pleasure to sit and hear the two beings I
loved and honoured above every one else in the world, discoursing
together so amicably, so wisely, and so well.  I was not always
silent, however; nor was I at all neglected.  I was quite as much
noticed as I would wish to be:  there was no lack of kind words and
kinder looks, no end of delicate attentions, too fine and subtle to
be grasped by words, and therefore indescribable--but deeply felt
at heart.
Ceremony was quickly dropped between us:  Mr. Weston came as an
expected guest, welcome at all times, and never deranging the
economy of our household affairs.  He even called me 'Agnes:' the
name had been timidly spoken at first, but, finding it gave no
offence in any quarter, he seemed greatly to prefer that
appellation to 'Miss Grey;' and so did I.  How tedious and gloomy
were those days in which he did not come!  And yet not miserable;
for I had still the remembrance of the last visit and the hope of
the next to cheer me.  But when two or three days passed without my
seeing him, I certainly felt very anxious--absurdly, unreasonably
so; for, of course, he had his own business and the affairs of his
parish to attend to.  And I dreaded the close of the holidays, when
MY business also would begin, and I should be sometimes unable to
see him, and sometimes--when my mother was in the schoolroom--
obliged to be with him alone:  a position I did not at all desire,
in the house; though to meet him out of doors, and walk beside him,
had proved by no means disagreeable.
One evening, however, in the last week of the vacation, he arrived-
-unexpectedly:  for a heavy and protracted thunder-shower during
the afternoon had almost destroyed my hopes of seeing him that day;
but now the storm was over, and the sun was shining brightly.
'A beautiful evening, Mrs. Grey!' said he, as he entered.  'Agnes,
I want you to take a walk with me to--' (he named a certain part of
the coast--a bold hill on the land side, and towards the sea a
steep precipice, from the summit of which a glorious view is to be
had).  'The rain has laid the dust, and cooled and cleared the air,
and the prospect will be magnificent.  Will you come?'
'Can I go, mamma?'
'Yes; to be sure.'
I went to get ready, and was down again in a few minutes; though,
of course, I took a little more pains with my attire than if I had
merely been going out on some shopping expedition alone.  The
thunder-shower had certainly had a most beneficial effect upon the
weather, and the evening was most delightful.  Mr. Weston would
have me to take his arm; he said little during our passage through
the crowded streets, but walked very fast, and appeared grave and
abstracted.  I wondered what was the matter, and felt an indefinite
dread that something unpleasant was on his mind; and vague
surmises, concerning what it might be, troubled me not a little,
and made me grave and silent enough.  But these fantasies vanished
upon reaching the quiet outskirts of the town; for as soon as we
came within sight of the venerable old church, and the--hill, with
the deep blue beyond it, I found my companion was cheerful enough.
