
'I'm afraid I've been walking too fast for you, Agnes,' said he:
'in my impatience to be rid of the town, I forgot to consult your
convenience; but now we'll walk as slowly as you please.  I see, by
those light clouds in the west, there will be a brilliant sunset,
and we shall be in time to witness its effect upon the sea, at the
most moderate rate of progression.'
When we had got about half-way up the hill, we fell into silence
again; which, as usual, he was the first to break.
'My house is desolate yet, Miss Grey,' he smilingly observed, 'and
I am acquainted now with all the ladies in my parish, and several
in this town too; and many others I know by sight and by report;
but not one of them will suit me for a companion; in fact, there is
only one person in the world that will:  and that is yourself; and
I want to know your decision?'
'Are you in earnest, Mr. Weston?'
'In earnest!  How could you think I should jest on such a subject?'
He laid his hand on mine, that rested on his arm:  he must have
felt it tremble--but it was no great matter now.
'I hope I have not been too precipitate,' he said, in a serious
tone.  'You must have known that it was not my way to flatter and
talk soft nonsense, or even to speak the admiration that I felt;
and that a single word or glance of mine meant more than the honied
phrases and fervent protestations of most other men.'
I said something about not liking to leave my mother, and doing
nothing without her consent.
'I settled everything with Mrs. Grey, while you were putting on
your bonnet,' replied he.  'She said I might have her consent, if I
could obtain yours; and I asked her, in case I should be so happy,
to come and live with us--for I was sure you would like it better.
But she refused, saying she could now afford to employ an
assistant, and would continue the school till she could purchase an
annuity sufficient to maintain her in comfortable lodgings; and,
meantime, she would spend her vacations alternately with us and
your sister, and should be quite contented if you were happy.  And
so now I have overruled your objections on her account.  Have you
any other?'
'No--none.'
'You love me then?' said be, fervently pressing my hand.
'Yes.'
Here I pause.  My Diary, from which I have compiled these pages,
goes but little further.  I could go on for years, but I will
content myself with adding, that I shall never forget that glorious
summer evening, and always remember with delight that steep hill,
and the edge of the precipice where we stood together, watching the
splendid sunset mirrored in the restless world of waters at our
feet--with hearts filled with gratitude to heaven, and happiness,
and love--almost too full for speech.
A few weeks after that, when my mother had supplied herself with an
assistant, I became the wife of Edward Weston; and never have found
cause to repent it, and am certain that I never shall.  We have had
trials, and we know that we must have them again; but we bear them
well together, and endeavour to fortify ourselves and each other
against the final separation--that greatest of all afflictions to
the survivor.  But, if we keep in mind the glorious heaven beyond,
where both may meet again, and sin and sorrow are unknown, surely
that too may be borne; and, meantime, we endeavour to live to the
glory of Him who has scattered so many blessings in our path.
Edward, by his strenuous exertions, has worked surprising reforms
in his parish, and is esteemed and loved by its inhabitants--as he
deserves; for whatever his faults may be as a man (and no one is
entirely without), I defy anybody to blame him as a pastor, a
husband, or a father.
Our children, Edward, Agnes, and little Mary, promise well; their
education, for the time being, is chiefly committed to me; and they
shall want no good thing that a mother's care can give.  Our modest
income is amply sufficient for our requirements:  and by practising
the economy we learnt in harder times, and never attempting to
imitate our richer neighbours, we manage not only to enjoy comfort
and contentment ourselves, but to have every year something to lay
by for our children, and something to give to those who need it.
And now I think I have said sufficient.
