
'Yes, sir.'
'You knew it?'
'Yes.'
'You knew it! and you actually sat there and permitted them to go
on without a word of reproof!'
'I didn't think they were doing any harm.'
'Any harm!  Why, look there!  Just look at that carpet, and see--
was there ever anything like it in a Christian house before?  No
wonder your room is not fit for a pigsty--no wonder your pupils are
worse than a litter of pigs!--no wonder--oh! I declare, it puts me
quite past my patience' and he departed, shutting the door after
him with a bang that made the children laugh.
'It puts me quite past my patience too!' muttered I, getting up;
and, seizing the poker, I dashed it repeatedly into the cinders,
and stirred them up with unwonted energy; thus easing my irritation
under pretence of mending the fire.
After this, Mr. Bloomfield was continually looking in to see if the
schoolroom was in order; and, as the children were continually
littering the floor with fragments of toys, sticks, stones,
stubble, leaves, and other rubbish, which I could not prevent their
bringing, or oblige them to gather up, and which the servants
refused to 'clean after them,' I had to spend a considerable
portion of my valuable leisure moments on my knees upon the floor,
in painsfully reducing things to order.  Once I told them that they
should not taste their supper till they had picked up everything
from the carpet; Fanny might have hers when she had taken up a
certain quantity, Mary Ann when she had gathered twice as many, and
Tom was to clear away the rest.  Wonderful to state, the girls did
their part; but Tom was in such a fury that he flew upon the table,
scattered the bread and milk about the floor, struck his sisters,
kicked the coals out of the coal-pan, attempted to overthrow the
table and chairs, and seemed inclined to make a Douglas-larder of
the whole contents of the room:  but I seized upon him, and,
sending Mary Ann to call her mamma, held him, in spite of kicks,
blows, yells, and execrations, till Mrs. Bloomfield made her
appearance.
'What is the matter with my boy?' said she.
And when the matter was explained to her, all she did was to send
for the nursery-maid to put the room in order, and bring Master
Bloomfield his supper.
'There now,' cried Tom, triumphantly, looking up from his viands
with his mouth almost too full for speech.  'There now, Miss Grey!
you see I've got my supper in spite of you:  and I haven't picked
up a single thing!'
The only person in the house who had any real sympathy for me was
the nurse; for she had suffered like afflictions, though in a
smaller degree; as she had not the task of teaching, nor was she so
responsible for the conduct of her charge.
'Oh, Miss Grey!' she would say, 'you have some trouble with them
childer!'
'I have, indeed, Betty; and I daresay you know what it is.'
'Ay, I do so!  But I don't vex myself o'er 'em as you do.  And
then, you see, I hit 'em a slap sometimes:  and them little 'uns--I
gives 'em a good whipping now and then:  there's nothing else will
do for 'em, as what they say.  Howsoever, I've lost my place for
it.'
'Have you, Betty?  I heard you were going to leave.'
'Eh, bless you, yes!  Missis gave me warning a three wik sin'.  She
told me afore Christmas how it mud be, if I hit 'em again; but I
couldn't hold my hand off 'em at nothing.  I know not how YOU do,
for Miss Mary Ann's worse by the half nor her sisters!'
CHAPTER V--THE UNCLE
Besides the old lady, there was another relative of the family,
whose visits were a great annoyance to me--this was 'Uncle Robson,'
Mrs. Bloomfield's brother; a tall, self-sufficient fellow, with
dark hair and sallow complexion like his sister, a nose that seemed
to disdain the earth, and little grey eyes, frequently half-closed,
with a mixture of real stupidity and affected contempt of all
surrounding objects.  He was a thick-set, strongly-built man, but
he had found some means of compressing his waist into a remarkably
small compass; and that, together with the unnatural stillness of
his form, showed that the lofty-minded, manly Mr. Robson, the
scorner of the female sex, was not above the foppery of stays.  He
seldom deigned to notice me; and, when he did, it was with a
certain supercilious insolence of tone and manner that convinced me
he was no gentleman:  though it was intended to have a contrary
effect.  But it was not for that I disliked his coming, so much as
for the harm he did the children--encouraging all their evil
propensities, and undoing in a few minutes the little good it had
taken me months of labour to achieve.
Fanny and little Harriet he seldom condescended to notice; but Mary
Ann was something of a favourite.  He was continually encouraging
her tendency to affectation (which I had done my utmost to crush),
talking about her pretty face, and filling her head with all manner
of conceited notions concerning her personal appearance (which I
had instructed her to regard as dust in the balance compared with
the cultivation of her mind and manners); and I never saw a child
so susceptible of flattery as she was.  Whatever was wrong, in
either her or her brother, he would encourage by laughing at, if
not by actually praising:  people little know the injury they do to
children by laughing at their faults, and making a pleasant jest of
what their true friends have endeavoured to teach them to hold in
grave abhorrence.
Though not a positive drunkard, Mr. Robson habitually swallowed
great quantities of wine, and took with relish an occasional glass
of brandy and water.  He taught his nephew to imitate him in this
to the utmost of his ability, and to believe that the more wine and
spirits he could take, and the better he liked them, the more he
manifested his bold, and manly spirit, and rose superior to his
sisters.  Mr. Bloomfield had not much to say against it, for his
favourite beverage was gin and water; of which he took a
considerable portion every day, by dint of constant sipping--and to
that I chiefly attributed his dingy complexion and waspish temper.
