
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Good evening, Lady Chiltern!  Has my good-for-
nothing young son been here?
LADY CHILTERN.  [Smiling.]  I don't think Lord Goring has arrived
yet.
MABEL CHILTERN.  [Coming up to LORD CAVERSHAM.]  Why do you call Lord
Goring good-for-nothing?
[MABEL CHILTERN is a perfect example of the English type of
prettiness, the apple-blossom type.  She has all the fragrance and
freedom of a flower.  There is ripple after ripple of sunlight in her
hair, and the little mouth, with its parted lips, is expectant, like
the mouth of a child.  She has the fascinating tyranny of youth, and
the astonishing courage of innocence.  To sane people she is not
reminiscent of any work of art.  But she is really like a Tanagra
statuette, and would be rather annoyed if she were told so.]
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Because he leads such an idle life.
MABEL CHILTERN.  How can you say such a thing?  Why, he rides in the
Row at ten o'clock in the morning, goes to the Opera three times a
week, changes his clothes at least five times a day, and dines out
every night of the season.  You don't call that leading an idle life,
do you?
LORD CAVERSHAM.  [Looking at her with a kindly twinkle in his eyes.]
You are a very charming young lady!
MABEL CHILTERN.  How sweet of you to say that, Lord Caversham!  Do
come to us more often.  You know we are always at home on Wednesdays,
and you look so well with your star!
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Never go anywhere now.  Sick of London Society.
Shouldn't mind being introduced to my own tailor; he always votes on
the right side.  But object strongly to being sent down to dinner
with my wife's milliner.  Never could stand Lady Caversham's bonnets.
MABEL CHILTERN.  Oh, I love London Society!  I think it has immensely
improved.  It is entirely composed now of beautiful idiots and
brilliant lunatics.  Just what Society should be.
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Hum!  Which is Goring?  Beautiful idiot, or the
other thing?
MABEL CHILTERN.  [Gravely.]  I have been obliged for the present to
put Lord Goring into a class quite by himself.  But he is developing
charmingly!
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Into what?
MABEL CHILTERN.  [With a little curtsey.]  I hope to let you know
very soon, Lord Caversham!
MASON.  [Announcing guests.]  Lady Markby.  Mrs. Cheveley.
[Enter LADY MARKBY and MRS. CHEVELEY.  LADY MARKBY is a pleasant,
kindly, popular woman, with gray hair e la marquise and good lace.
MRS. CHEVELEY, who accompanies her, is tall and rather slight.  Lips
very thin and highly-coloured, a line of scarlet on a pallid face.
Venetian red hair, aquiline nose, and long throat.  Rouge accentuates
the natural paleness of her complexion.  Gray-green eyes that move
restlessly.  She is in heliotrope, with diamonds.  She looks rather
like an orchid, and makes great demands on one's curiosity.  In all
her movements she is extremely graceful.  A work of art, on the
whole, but showing the influence of too many schools.]
LADY MARKBY.  Good evening, dear Gertrude!  So kind of you to let me
bring my friend, Mrs. Cheveley.  Two such charming women should know
each other!
LADY CHILTERN.  [Advances towards MRS. CHEVELEY with a sweet smile.
Then suddenly stops, and bows rather distantly.]  I think Mrs.
Cheveley and I have met before.  I did not know she had married a
second time.
LADY MARKBY.  [Genially.]  Ah, nowadays people marry as often as they
can, don't they?  It is most fashionable.  [To DUCHESS OF
MARYBOROUGH.]  Dear Duchess, and how is the Duke?  Brain still weak,
I suppose?  Well, that is only to be expected, is it not?  His good
father was just the same.  There is nothing like race, is there?
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [Playing with her fan.]  But have we really met
before, Lady Chiltern?  I can't remember where.  I have been out of
England for so long.
LADY CHILTERN.  We were at school together, Mrs. Cheveley.
MRS. CHEVELEY [Superciliously.]  Indeed?  I have forgotten all about
my schooldays.  I have a vague impression that they were detestable.
LADY CHILTERN.  [Coldly.]  I am not surprised!
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [In her sweetest manner.]  Do you know, I am quite
looking forward to meeting your clever husband, Lady Chiltern.  Since
he has been at the Foreign Office, he has been so much talked of in
Vienna.  They actually succeed in spelling his name right in the
newspapers.  That in itself is fame, on the continent.
LADY CHILTERN.  I hardly think there will be much in common between
you and my husband, Mrs. Cheveley!  [Moves away.]
