
LADY CHILTERN.  Ah! it is heresy to say that in this house, Lady
Markby.  Robert is a great champion of the Higher Education of Women,
and so, I am afraid, am I.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  The higher education of men is what I should like to
see.  Men need it so sadly.
LADY MARKBY.  They do, dear.  But I am afraid such a scheme would be
quite unpractical.  I don't think man has much capacity for
development.  He has got as far as he can, and that is not far, is
it?  With regard to women, well, dear Gertrude, you belong to the
younger generation, and I am sure it is all right if you approve of
it.  In my time, of course, we were taught not to understand
anything.  That was the old system, and wonderfully interesting it
was.  I assure you that the amount of things I and my poor dear
sister were taught not to understand was quite extraordinary.  But
modern women understand everything, I am told.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Except their husbands.  That is the one thing the
modern woman never understands.
LADY MARKBY.  And a very good thing too, dear, I dare say.  It might
break up many a happy home if they did.  Not yours, I need hardly
say, Gertrude.  You have married a pattern husband.  I wish I could
say as much for myself.  But since Sir John has taken to attending
the debates regularly, which he never used to do in the good old
days, his language has become quite impossible.  He always seems to
think that he is addressing the House, and consequently whenever he
discusses the state of the agricultural labourer, or the Welsh
Church, or something quite improper of that kind, I am obliged to
send all the servants out of the room.  It is not pleasant to see
one's own butler, who has been with one for twenty-three years,
actually blushing at the side-board, and the footmen making
contortions in corners like persons in circuses.  I assure you my
life will be quite ruined unless they send John at once to the Upper
House.  He won't take any interest in politics then, will he?  The
House of Lords is so sensible.  An assembly of gentlemen.  But in his
present state, Sir John is really a great trial.  Why, this morning
before breakfast was half over, he stood up on the hearthrug, put his
hands in his pockets, and appealed to the country at the top of his
voice.  I left the table as soon as I had my second cup of tea, I
need hardly say.  But his violent language could be heard all over
the house!  I trust, Gertrude, that Sir Robert is not like that
LADY CHILTERN.  But I am very much interested in politics, Lady
Markby.  I love to hear Robert talk about them.
LADY MARKBY.  Well, I hope he is not as devoted to Blue Books as Sir
John is.  I don't think they can be quite improving reading for any
one.
MRS. CHEVELEY [Languidly.]  I have never read a Blue Book.  I prefer
books . . . in yellow covers.
LADY MARKBY.  [Genially unconscious.]  Yellow is a gayer colour, is
it not?  I used to wear yellow a good deal in my early days, and
would do so now if Sir John was not so painfully personal in his
observations, and a man on the question of dress is always
ridiculous, is he not?
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Oh, no!  I think men are the only authorities on
dress.
LADY MARKBY.  Really?  One wouldn't say so from the sort of hats they
wear? would one?
[The butler enters, followed by the footman.  Tea is set on a small
table close to LADY CHILTERN.]
LADY CHILTERN.  May I give you some tea, Mrs. Cheveley?
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Thanks.  [The butler hands MRS. CHEVELEY a cup of tea
on a salver.]
LADY CHILTERN.  Some tea, Lady Markby?
LADY MARKBY.  No thanks, dear.  [The servants go out.]  The fact is,
I have promised to go round for ten minutes to see poor Lady
Brancaster, who is in very great trouble.  Her daughter, quite a
well-brought-up girl, too, has actually become engaged to be married
to a curate in Shropshire.  It is very sad, very sad indeed.  I can't
understand this modern mania for curates.  In my time we girls saw
them, of course, running about the place like rabbits.  But we never
took any notice of them, I need hardly say.  But I am told that
nowadays country society is quite honeycombed with them.  I think it
most irreligious.  And then the eldest son has quarrelled with his
father, and it is said that when they meet at the club Lord
Brancaster always hides himself behind the money article in THE
TIMES.  However, I believe that is quite a common occurrence nowadays
and that they have to take in extra copies of THE TIMES at all the
clubs in St. James's Street; there are so many sons who won't have
anything to do with their fathers, and so many fathers who won't
speak to their sons.  I think myself, it is very much to be
regretted.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  So do I.  Fathers have so much to learn from their
sons nowadays.
LADY MARKBY.  Really, dear?  What?
MRS. CHEVELEY.  The art of living.  The only really Fine Art we have
produced in modern times.
LADY MARKBY.  [Shaking her head.]  Ah!  I am afraid Lord Brancaster
knew a good deal about that.  More than his poor wife ever did.
[Turning to LADY CHILTERN.]  You know Lady Brancaster, don't you,
dear?
LADY CHILTERN.  Just slightly.  She was staying at Langton last
autumn, when we were there.
LADY MARKBY.  Well, like all stout women, she looks the very picture
of happiness, as no doubt you noticed.  But there are many tragedies
in her family, besides this affair of the curate.  Her own sister,
Mrs. Jekyll, had a most unhappy life; through no fault of her own, I
am sorry to say.  She ultimately was so broken-hearted that she went
into a convent, or on to the operatic stage, I forget which.  No; I
think it was decorative art-needlework she took up.  I know she had
lost all sense of pleasure in life.  [Rising.]  And now, Gertrude, if
you will allow me, I shall leave Mrs. Cheveley in your charge and
call back for her in a quarter of an hour.  Or perhaps, dear Mrs.
Cheveley, you wouldn't mind waiting in the carriage while I am with
Lady Brancaster.  As I intend it to be a visit of condolence, I
shan't stay long.
MRS. CHEVELEY [Rising.]  I don't mind waiting in the carriage at all,
provided there is somebody to look at one.
LADY MARKBY.  Well, I hear the curate is always prowling about the
house.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  I am afraid I am not fond of girl friends.
