
MRS. CHEVELEY [With a bitter laugh.]  In this world like meets with
like.  It is because your husband is himself fraudulent and dishonest
that we pair so well together.  Between you and him there are chasms.
He and I are closer than friends.  We are enemies linked together.
The same sin binds us.
LADY CHILTERN.  How dare you class my husband with yourself?  How
dare you threaten him or me?  Leave my house.  You are unfit to enter
it.
[SIR ROBERT CHILTERN enters from behind.  He hears his wife's last
words, and sees to whom they are addressed.  He grows deadly pale.]
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Your house!  A house bought with the price of
dishonour.  A house, everything in which has been paid for by fraud.
[Turns round and sees SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.]  Ask him what the origin
of his fortune is!  Get him to tell you how he sold to a stockbroker
a Cabinet secret.  Learn from him to what you owe your position.
LADY CHILTERN.  It is not true!  Robert!  It is not true!
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [Pointing at him with outstretched finger.]  Look at
him!  Can he deny it?  Does he dare to?
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Go!  Go at once.  You have done your worst now.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  My worst?  I have not yet finished with you, with
either of you.  I give you both till to-morrow at noon.  If by then
you don't do what I bid you to do, the whole world shall know the
origin of Robert Chiltern.
[SIR ROBERT CHILTERN strikes the bell.  Enter MASON.]
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Show Mrs. Cheveley out.
[MRS. CHEVELEY starts; then bows with somewhat exaggerated politeness
to LADY CHILTERN, who makes no sign of response.  As she passes by
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN, who is standing close to the door, she pauses
for a moment and looks him straight in the face.  She then goes out,
followed by the servant, who closes the door after him.  The husband
and wife are left alone.  LADY CHILTERN stands like some one in a
dreadful dream.  Then she turns round and looks at her husband.  She
looks at him with strange eyes, as though she were seeing him for the
first time.]
LADY CHILTERN.  You sold a Cabinet secret for money!  You began your
life with fraud!  You built up your career on dishonour!  Oh, tell me
it is not true!  Lie to me!  Lie to me!  Tell me it is not true!
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  What this woman said is quite true.  But,
Gertrude, listen to me.  You don't realise how I was tempted.  Let me
tell you the whole thing. [Goes towards her.]
LADY CHILTERN.  Don't come near me.  Don't touch me.  I feel as if
you had soiled me for ever.  Oh! what a mask you have been wearing
all these years!  A horrible painted mask!  You sold yourself for
money.  Oh! a common thief were better.  You put yourself up to sale
to the highest bidder!  You were bought in the market.  You lied to
the whole world.  And yet you will not lie to me.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [Rushing towards her.]  Gertrude!  Gertrude!
LADY CHILTERN.  [Thrusting him back with outstretched hands.]  No,
don't speak!  Say nothing!  Your voice wakes terrible memories -
memories of things that made me love you - memories of words that
made me love you - memories that now are horrible to me.  And how I
worshipped you!  You were to me something apart from common life, a
thing pure, noble, honest, without stain.  The world seemed to me
finer because you were in it, and goodness more real because you
lived.  And now - oh, when I think that I made of a man like you my
ideal! the ideal of my life!
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  There was your mistake.  There was your error.
The error all women commit.  Why can't you women love us, faults and
all?  Why do you place us on monstrous pedestals?  We have all feet
of clay, women as well as men; but when we men love women, we love
them knowing their weaknesses, their follies, their imperfections,
love them all the more, it may be, for that reason.  It is not the
perfect, but the imperfect, who have need of love.  It is when we are
wounded by our own hands, or by the hands of others, that love should
come to cure us - else what use is love at all?  All sins, except a
sin against itself, Love should forgive.  All lives, save loveless
lives, true Love should pardon.  A man's love is like that.  It is
wider, larger, more human than a woman's.  Women think that they are
making ideals of men.  What they are making of us are false idols
merely.  You made your false idol of me, and I had not the courage to
come down, show you my wounds, tell you my weaknesses.  I was afraid
that I might lose your love, as I have lost it now.  And so, last
night you ruined my life for me - yes, ruined it!  What this woman
asked of me was nothing compared to what she offered to me.  She
offered security, peace, stability.  The sin of my youth, that I had
thought was buried, rose up in front of me, hideous, horrible, with
its hands at my throat.  I could have killed it for ever, sent it
back into its tomb, destroyed its record, burned the one witness
against me.  You prevented me.  No one but you, you know it.  And now
what is there before me but public disgrace, ruin, terrible shame,
the mockery of the world, a lonely dishonoured life, a lonely
dishonoured death, it may be, some day?  Let women make no more
ideals of men! let them not put them on alters and bow before them,
or they may ruin other lives as completely as you - you whom I have
so wildly loved - have ruined mine!
[He passes from the room.  LADY CHILTERN rushes towards him, but the
door is closed when she reaches it.  Pale with anguish, bewildered,
helpless, she sways like a plant in the water.  Her hands,
outstretched, stem to tremble in the air like blossoms in the mind.
Then she flings herself down beside a sofa and buries her face.  Her
sobs are like the sobs of a child.]
ACT DROP
THIRD ACT
SCENE
