
LORD GORING.  How you women war against each other!
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [Bitterly.]  I only war against one woman, against
Gertrude Chiltern.  I hate her.  I hate her now more than ever.
LORD GORING.  Because you have brought a real tragedy into her life,
I suppose.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [With a sneer.]  Oh, there is only one real tragedy
in a woman's life.  The fact that her past is always her lover, and
her future invariably her husband.
LORD GORING.  Lady Chiltern knows nothing of the kind of life to
which you are alluding.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  A woman whose size in gloves is seven and three-
quarters never knows much about anything.  You know Gertrude has
always worn seven and three-quarters?  That is one of the reasons why
there was never any moral sympathy between us. . . . Well, Arthur, I
suppose this romantic interview may be regarded as at an end.  You
admit it was romantic, don't you?  For the privilege of being your
wife I was ready to surrender a great prize, the climax of my
diplomatic career.  You decline.  Very well.  If Sir Robert doesn't
uphold my Argentine scheme, I expose him.  VOILE TOUT.
LORD GORING.  You mustn't do that.  It would be vile, horrible,
infamous.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [Shrugging her shoulders.]  Oh! don't use big words.
They mean so little.  It is a commercial transaction.  That is all.
There is no good mixing up sentimentality in it.  I offered to sell
Robert Chiltern a certain thing.  If he won't pay me my price, he
will have to pay the world a greater price.  There is no more to be
said.  I must go.  Good-bye.  Won't you shake hands?
LORD GORING.  With you?  No.  Your transaction with Robert Chiltern
may pass as a loathsome commercial transaction of a loathsome
commercial age; but you seem to have forgotten that you came here to-
night to talk of love, you whose lips desecrated the word love, you
to whom the thing is a book closely sealed, went this afternoon to
the house of one of the most noble and gentle women in the world to
degrade her husband in her eyes, to try and kill her love for him, to
put poison in her heart, and bitterness in her life, to break her
idol, and, it may be, spoil her soul.  That I cannot forgive you.
That was horrible.  For that there can be no forgiveness.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Arthur, you are unjust to me.  Believe me, you are
quite unjust to me.  I didn't go to taunt Gertrude at all.  I had no
idea of doing anything of the kind when I entered.  I called with
Lady Markby simply to ask whether an ornament, a jewel, that I lost
somewhere last night, had been found at the Chilterns'.  If you don't
believe me, you can ask Lady Markby.  She will tell you it is true.
The scene that occurred happened after Lady Markby had left, and was
really forced on me by Gertrude's rudeness and sneers.  I called, oh!
- a little out of malice if you like - but really to ask if a diamond
brooch of mine had been found.  That was the origin of the whole
thing.
LORD GORING.  A diamond snake-brooch with a ruby?
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Yes.  How do you know?
LORD GORING.  Because it is found.  In point of fact, I found it
myself, and stupidly forgot to tell the butler anything about it as I
was leaving.  [Goes over to the writing-table and pulls out the
drawers.]  It is in this drawer.  No, that one.  This is the brooch,
isn't it?  [Holds up the brooch.]
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Yes.  I am so glad to get it back.  It was . . a
present.
LORD GORING.  Won't you wear it?
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Certainly, if you pin it in.  [LORD GORING suddenly
clasps it on her arm.]  Why do you put it on as a bracelet?  I never
knew it could he worn as a bracelet.
LORD GORING.  Really?
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [Holding out her handsome arm.]  No; but it looks
very well on me as a bracelet, doesn't it?
LORD GORING.  Yes; much better than when I saw it last.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  When did you see it last?
LORD GORING.  [Calmly.]  Oh, ten years ago, on Lady Berkshire, from
whom you stole it.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [Starting.]  What do you mean?
LORD GORING.  I mean that you stole that ornament from my cousin,
Mary Berkshire, to whom I gave it when she was married.  Suspicion
fell on a wretched servant, who was sent away in disgrace.  I
recognised it last night.  I determined to say nothing about it till
I had found the thief.  I have found the thief now, and I have heard
her own confession.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [Tossing her head.]  It is not true.
LORD GORING.  You know it is true.  Why, thief is written across your
face at this moment.
