
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [With a touch of bitterness.]  I suppose I had
better write it at once.  Such offers are not repeated.  I will ask
you to excuse me for a moment, Lord Caversham.
LADY CHILTERN.  I may come with you, Robert, may I not?
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Yes, Gertrude.
[LADY CHILTERN goes out with him.]
LORD CAVERSHAM.  What is the matter with this family?  Something
wrong here, eh?  [Tapping his forehead.]  Idiocy?  Hereditary, I
suppose.  Both of them, too.  Wife as well as husband.  Very sad.
Very sad indeed!  And they are not an old family.  Can't understand
it.
LORD GORING.  It is not idiocy, father, I assure you.
LORD CAVERSHAM.  What is it then, sir?
LORD GORING.  [After some hesitation.]  Well, it is what is called
nowadays a high moral tone, father.  That is all.
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Hate these new-fangled names.  Same thing as we used
to call idiocy fifty years ago.  Shan't stay in this house any
longer.
LORD GORING.  [Taking his arm.]  Oh! just go in here for a moment,
father.  Third palm tree to the left, the usual palm tree.
LORD CAVERSHAM.  What, sir?
LORD GORING.  I beg your pardon, father, I forgot.  The conservatory,
father, the conservatory - there is some one there I want you to talk
to.
LORD CAVERSHAM.  What about, sir?
LORD GORING.  About me, father,
LORD CAVERSHAM.  [Grimly.]  Not a subject on which much eloquence is
possible.
LORD GORING.  No, father; but the lady is like me.  She doesn't care
much for eloquence in others.  She thinks it a little loud.
[LORD CAVERSHAM goes out into the conservatory.  LADY CHILTERN
enters.]
LORD GORING.  Lady Chiltern, why are you playing Mrs. Cheveley's
cards?
LADY CHILTERN.  [Startled.]  I don't understand you.
LORD GORING.  Mrs. Cheveley made an attempt to ruin your husband.
Either to drive him from public life, or to make him adopt a
dishonourable position.  From the latter tragedy you saved him.  The
former you are now thrusting on him.  Why should you do him the wrong
Mrs. Cheveley tried to do and failed?
LADY CHILTERN.  Lord Goring?
LORD GORING.  [Pulling himself together for a great effort, and
showing the philosopher that underlies the dandy.]  Lady Chiltern,
allow me.  You wrote me a letter last night in which you said you
trusted me and wanted my help.  Now is the moment when you really
want my help, now is the time when you have got to trust me, to trust
in my counsel and judgment.  You love Robert.  Do you want to kill
his love for you?  What sort of existence will he have if you rob him
of the fruits of his ambition, if you take him from the splendour of
a great political career, if you close the doors of public life
against him, if you condemn him to sterile failure, he who was made
for triumph and success?  Women are not meant to judge us, but to
forgive us when we need forgiveness.  Pardon, not punishment, is
their mission.  Why should you scourge him with rods for a sin done
in his youth, before he knew you, before he knew himself?  A man's
life is of more value than a woman's.  It has larger issues, wider
scope, greater ambitions.  A woman's life revolves in curves of
emotions.  It is upon lines of intellect that a man's life
progresses.  Don't make any terrible mistake, Lady Chiltern.  A woman
who can keep a man's love, and love him in return, has done all the
world wants of women, or should want of them.
LADY CHILTERN.  [Troubled and hesitating.]  But it is my husband
himself who wishes to retire from public life.  He feels it is his
duty.  It was he who first said so.
LORD GORING.  Rather than lose your love, Robert would do anything,
wreck his whole career, as he is on the brink of doing now.  He is
making for you a terrible sacrifice.  Take my advice, Lady Chiltern,
and do not accept a sacrifice so great.  If you do, you will live to
repent it bitterly.  We men and women are not made to accept such
sacrifices from each other.  We are not worthy of them.  Besides,
Robert has been punished enough.
LADY CHILTERN.  We have both been punished.  I set him up too high.
