
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I am afraid I don't quite understand what you
mean.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [Leaning back on the sofa and looking at him.]  How
very disappointing!  And I have come all the way from Vienna in order
that you should thoroughly understand me.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I fear I don't.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [In her most nonchalant manner.]  My dear Sir Robert,
you are a man of the world, and you have your price, I suppose.
Everybody has nowadays.  The drawback is that most people are so
dreadfully expensive.  I know I am.  I hope you will be more
reasonable in your terms.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [Rises indignantly.]  If you will allow me, I
will call your carriage for you.  You have lived so long abroad, Mrs.
Cheveley, that you seem to be unable to realise that you are talking
to an English gentleman.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [Detains him by touching his arm with her fan, and
keeping it there while she is talking.]  I realise that I am talking
to a man who laid the foundation of his fortune by selling to a Stock
Exchange speculator a Cabinet secret.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [Biting his lip.]  What do you mean?
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [Rising and facing him.]  I mean that I know the real
origin of your wealth and your career, and I have got your letter,
too.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  What letter?
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [Contemptuously.]  The letter you wrote to Baron
Arnheim, when you were Lord Radley's secretary, telling the Baron to
buy Suez Canal shares - a letter written three days before the
Government announced its own purchase.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [Hoarsely.]  It is not true.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  You thought that letter had been destroyed.  How
foolish of you!  It is in my possession.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  The affair to which you allude was no more than
a speculation.  The House of Commons had not yet passed the bill; it
might have been rejected.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  It was a swindle, Sir Robert.  Let us call things by
their proper names.  It makes everything simpler.  And now I am going
to sell you that letter, and the price I ask for it is your public
support of the Argentine scheme.  You made your own fortune out of
one canal.  You must help me and my friends to make our fortunes out
of another!
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  It is infamous, what you propose - infamous!
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Oh, no!  This is the game of life as we all have to
play it, Sir Robert, sooner or later!
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I cannot do what you ask me.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  You mean you cannot help doing it.  You know you are
standing on the edge of a precipice.  And it is not for you to make
terms.  It is for you to accept them.  Supposing you refuse -
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  What then?
MRS. CHEVELEY.  My dear Sir Robert, what then?  You are ruined, that
is all!  Remember to what a point your Puritanism in England has
brought you.  In old days nobody pretended to be a bit better than
his neighbours.  In fact, to be a bit better than one's neighbour was
considered excessively vulgar and middle-class.  Nowadays, with our
modern mania for morality, every one has to pose as a paragon of
purity, incorruptibility, and all the other seven deadly virtues -
and what is the result?  You all go over like ninepins - one after
the other.  Not a year passes in England without somebody
disappearing.  Scandals used to lend charm, or at least interest, to
a man - now they crush him.  And yours is a very nasty scandal. You
couldn't survive it.  If it were known that as a young man, secretary
to a great and important minister, you sold a Cabinet secret for a
large sum of money, and that that was the origin of your wealth and
career, you would be hounded out of public life, you would disappear
completely.  And after all, Sir Robert, why should you sacrifice your
entire future rather than deal diplomatically with your enemy?  For
the moment I am your enemy.  I admit it!  And I am much stronger than
you are.  The big battalions are on my side.  You have a splendid
position, but it is your splendid position that makes you so
vulnerable.  You can't defend it!  And I am in attack.  Of course I
have not talked morality to you.  You must admit in fairness that I
have spared you that.  Years ago you did a clever, unscrupulous
thing; it turned out a great success.  You owe to it your fortune and
position.  And now you have got to pay for it.  Sooner or later we
have all to pay for what we do.  You have to pay now.  Before I leave
you to-night, you have got to promise me to suppress your report, and
to speak in the House in favour of this scheme.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  What you ask is impossible.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  You must make it possible.  You are going to make it
possible.  Sir Robert, you know what your English newspapers are
like.  Suppose that when I leave this house I drive down to some
newspaper office, and give them this scandal and the proofs of it!
Think of their loathsome joy, of the delight they would have in
dragging you down, of the mud and mire they would plunge you in.
Think of the hypocrite with his greasy smile penning his leading
article, and arranging the foulness of the public placard.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Stop!  You want me to withdraw the report and
to make a short speech stating that I believe there are possibilities
in the scheme?
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [Sitting down on the sofa.]  Those are my terms.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [In a low voice.]  I will give you any sum of
money you want.
