
Well, manmaker!
Just in time, sir.  If the captain pleases, I will now mark the
length.  Let me measure, sir.
Measured for a leg! good.  Well, it's not the first time.  About it!
There; keep thy finger on it.  This is a cogent vice thou hast here,
carpenter; let me feel its grip once.  So, so; it does pinch some.
Oh, sir, it will break bones--beware, beware!
No fear; I like a good grip; I like to feel something in this
slippery world that can hold, man.  What's Prometheus about
there?--the blacksmith, I mean--what's he about?
He must be forging the buckle-screw, sir, now.
Right.  It's a partnership; he supplies the muscle part.  He makes a
fierce red flame there!
Aye, sir; he must have the white heat for this kind of fine work.
Um-m.  So he must.  I do deem it now a most meaning thing, that that
old Greek, Prometheus, who made men, they say, should have been a
blacksmith, and animated them with fire; for what's made in fire must
properly belong to fire; and so hell's probable.  How the soot flies!
This must be the remainder the Greek made the Africans of.
Carpenter, when he's through with that buckle, tell him to forge a
pair of steel shoulder-blades; there's a pedlar aboard with a
crushing pack.
Sir?
Hold; while Prometheus is about it, I'll order a complete man after a
desirable pattern.  Imprimis, fifty feet high in his socks; then,
chest modelled after the Thames Tunnel; then, legs with roots to 'em,
to stay in one place; then, arms three feet through the wrist; no
heart at all, brass forehead, and about a quarter of an acre of fine
brains; and let me see--shall I order eyes to see outwards?  No, but
put a sky-light on top of his head to illuminate inwards.  There,
take the order, and away.
Now, what's he speaking about, and who's he speaking to, I should
like to know?  Shall I keep standing here? (ASIDE).
'Tis but indifferent architecture to make a blind dome; here's one.
No, no, no; I must have a lantern.
Ho, ho!  That's it, hey?  Here are two, sir; one will serve my turn.
What art thou thrusting that thief-catcher into my face for, man?
Thrusted light is worse than presented pistols.
I thought, sir, that you spoke to carpenter.
Carpenter? why that's--but no;--a very tidy, and, I may say, an
extremely gentlemanlike sort of business thou art in here,
carpenter;--or would'st thou rather work in clay?
Sir?--Clay? clay, sir?  That's mud; we leave clay to ditchers, sir.
The fellow's impious!  What art thou sneezing about?
