
In his fiery eyes of scorn and triumph, you then saw Ahab in all his
fatal pride.
CHAPTER 125
The Log and Line.
While now the fated Pequod had been so long afloat this voyage, the
log and line had but very seldom been in use.  Owing to a confident
reliance upon other means of determining the vessel's place, some
merchantmen, and many whalemen, especially when cruising, wholly
neglect to heave the log; though at the same time, and frequently
more for form's sake than anything else, regularly putting down upon
the customary slate the course steered by the ship, as well as the
presumed average rate of progression every hour.  It had been thus
with the Pequod.  The wooden reel and angular log attached hung, long
untouched, just beneath the railing of the after bulwarks.  Rains and
spray had damped it; sun and wind had warped it; all the elements
had combined to rot a thing that hung so idly.  But heedless of all
this, his mood seized Ahab, as he happened to glance upon the reel,
not many hours after the magnet scene, and he remembered how his
quadrant was no more, and recalled his frantic oath about the level
log and line.  The ship was sailing plungingly; astern the billows
rolled in riots.
"Forward, there!  Heave the log!"
Two seamen came.  The golden-hued Tahitian and the grizzly Manxman.
"Take the reel, one of ye, I'll heave."
They went towards the extreme stern, on the ship's lee side, where
the deck, with the oblique energy of the wind, was now almost dipping
into the creamy, sidelong-rushing sea.
The Manxman took the reel, and holding it high up, by the projecting
handle-ends of the spindle, round which the spool of line revolved,
so stood with the angular log hanging downwards, till Ahab advanced
to him.
Ahab stood before him, and was lightly unwinding some thirty or forty
turns to form a preliminary hand-coil to toss overboard, when the old
Manxman, who was intently eyeing both him and the line, made bold to
speak.
"Sir, I mistrust it; this line looks far gone, long heat and wet have
spoiled it."
"'Twill hold, old gentleman.  Long heat and wet, have they spoiled
thee?  Thou seem'st to hold.  Or, truer perhaps, life holds thee;
not thou it."
"I hold the spool, sir.  But just as my captain says.  With these
grey hairs of mine 'tis not worth while disputing, 'specially with a
superior, who'll ne'er confess."
"What's that?  There now's a patched professor in Queen Nature's
granite-founded College; but methinks he's too subservient.  Where
wert thou born?"
"In the little rocky Isle of Man, sir."
"Excellent!  Thou'st hit the world by that."
"I know not, sir, but I was born there."
"In the Isle of Man, hey?  Well, the other way, it's good.  Here's a
man from Man; a man born in once independent Man, and now unmanned of
Man; which is sucked in--by what?  Up with the reel!  The dead, blind
wall butts all inquiring heads at last.  Up with it!  So."
