
The log was heaved.  The loose coils rapidly straightened out in a
long dragging line astern, and then, instantly, the reel began to
whirl.  In turn, jerkingly raised and lowered by the rolling billows,
the towing resistance of the log caused the old reelman to stagger
strangely.
"Hold hard!"
Snap! the overstrained line sagged down in one long festoon; the
tugging log was gone.
"I crush the quadrant, the thunder turns the needles, and now the mad
sea parts the log-line.  But Ahab can mend all.  Haul in here,
Tahitian; reel up, Manxman.  And look ye, let the carpenter make
another log, and mend thou the line.  See to it."
"There he goes now; to him nothing's happened; but to me, the skewer
seems loosening out of the middle of the world.  Haul in, haul in,
Tahitian!  These lines run whole, and whirling out: come in broken,
and dragging slow.  Ha, Pip? come to help; eh, Pip?"
"Pip? whom call ye Pip?  Pip jumped from the whale-boat.  Pip's
missing.  Let's see now if ye haven't fished him up here, fisherman.
It drags hard; I guess he's holding on.  Jerk him, Tahiti!  Jerk him
off; we haul in no cowards here.  Ho! there's his arm just breaking
water.  A hatchet! a hatchet! cut it off--we haul in no cowards here.
Captain Ahab! sir, sir! here's Pip, trying to get on board again."
"Peace, thou crazy loon," cried the Manxman, seizing him by the arm.
"Away from the quarter-deck!"
"The greater idiot ever scolds the lesser," muttered Ahab, advancing.
"Hands off from that holiness!  Where sayest thou Pip was, boy?
"Astern there, sir, astern!  Lo! lo!"
"And who art thou, boy?  I see not my reflection in the vacant pupils
of thy eyes.  Oh God! that man should be a thing for immortal souls
to sieve through!  Who art thou, boy?"
"Bell-boy, sir; ship's-crier; ding, dong, ding!  Pip!  Pip!  Pip!  One
hundred pounds of clay reward for Pip; five feet high--looks
cowardly--quickest known by that!  Ding, dong, ding!  Who's seen Pip
the coward?"
"There can be no hearts above the snow-line.  Oh, ye frozen heavens!
look down here.  Ye did beget this luckless child, and have abandoned
him, ye creative libertines.  Here, boy; Ahab's cabin shall be Pip's
home henceforth, while Ahab lives.  Thou touchest my inmost centre,
boy; thou art tied to me by cords woven of my heart-strings.  Come,
let's down."
"What's this? here's velvet shark-skin," intently gazing at Ahab's
hand, and feeling it.  "Ah, now, had poor Pip but felt so kind a
thing as this, perhaps he had ne'er been lost!  This seems to me,
sir, as a man-rope; something that weak souls may hold by.  Oh, sir,
let old Perth now come and rivet these two hands together; the black
one with the white, for I will not let this go."
"Oh, boy, nor will I thee, unless I should thereby drag thee to worse
horrors than are here.  Come, then, to my cabin.  Lo! ye believers in
gods all goodness, and in man all ill, lo you! see the omniscient
gods oblivious of suffering man; and man, though idiotic, and knowing
not what he does, yet full of the sweet things of love and gratitude.
Come!  I feel prouder leading thee by thy black hand, than though I
grasped an Emperor's!"
"There go two daft ones now," muttered the old Manxman.  "One daft
with strength, the other daft with weakness.  But here's the end of
the rotten line--all dripping, too.  Mend it, eh?  I think we had
best have a new line altogether.  I'll see Mr. Stubb about it."
CHAPTER 126
The Life-Buoy.
