
'I should like to have a ride, Mr. Markham, if mamma will let me,'
said the child.
'What on, my boy?'
'I think there's a horse in that field,' replied he, pointing to
where the strong black mare was pulling the roller.
'No, no, Arthur; it's too far,' objected his mother.
But I promised to bring him safe back after a turn or two up and
down the meadow; and when she looked at his eager face she smiled
and let him go.  It was the first time she had even allowed me to
take him so much as half a field's length from her side.
Enthroned upon his monstrous steed, and solemnly proceeding up and
down the wide, steep field, he looked the very incarnation of
quiet, gleeful satisfaction and delight.  The rolling, however, was
soon completed; but when I dismounted the gallant horseman, and
restored him to his mother, she seemed rather displeased at my
keeping him so long.  She had shut up her sketch-book, and been,
probably, for some minutes impatiently waiting his return.
It was now high time to go home, she said, and would have bid me
good-evening, but I was not going to leave her yet:  I accompanied
her half-way up the hill.  She became more sociable, and I was
beginning to be very happy; but, on coming within sight of the grim
old hall, she stood still, and turned towards me while she spoke,
as if expecting I should go no further, that the conversation would
end here, and I should now take leave and depart - as, indeed, it
was time to do, for 'the clear, cold eve' was fast 'declining,' the
sun had set, and the gibbous moon was visibly brightening in the
pale grey sky; but a feeling almost of compassion riveted me to the
spot.  It seemed hard to leave her to such a lonely, comfortless
home.  I looked up at it.  Silent and grim it frowned; before us.
A faint, red light was gleaming from the lower windows of one wing,
but all the other windows were in darkness, and many exhibited
their black, cavernous gulfs, entirely destitute of glazing or
framework.
'Do you not find it a desolate place to live in?' said I, after a
moment of silent contemplation.
'I do, sometimes,' replied she.  'On winter evenings, when Arthur
is in bed, and I am sitting there alone, hearing the bleak wind
moaning round me and howling through the ruinous old chambers, no
books or occupations can represss the dismal thoughts and
apprehensions that come crowding in - but it is folly to give way
to such weakness, I know.  If Rachel is satisfied with such a life,
why should not I? - Indeed, I cannot be too thankful for such an
asylum, while it is left me.'
The closing sentence was uttered in an under-tone, as if spoken
rather to herself than to me.  She then bid me good-evening and
withdrew.
I had not proceeded many steps on my way homewards when I perceived
Mr. Lawrence, on his pretty grey pony, coming up the rugged lane
that crossed over the hill-top.  I went a little out of my way to
speak to him; for we had not met for some time.
'Was that Mrs. Graham you were speaking to just now?' said he,
after the first few words of greeting had passed between us.
'Yes.'
'Humph!  I thought so.'  He looked contemplatively at his horse's
mane, as if he had some serious cause of dissatisfaction with it,
or something else.
'Well! what then?'
'Oh, nothing!' replied he.  'Only I thought you disliked her,' he
quietly added, curling his classic lip with a slightly sarcastic
smile.
'Suppose I did; mayn't a man change his mind on further
acquaintance?'
'Yes, of course,' returned he, nicely reducing an entanglement in
the pony's redundant hoary mane.  Then suddenly turning to me, and
fixing his shy, hazel eyes upon me with a steady penetrating gaze,
he added, 'Then you have changed your mind?'
'I can't say that I have exactly.  No; I think I hold the same
opinion respecting her as before - but slightly ameliorated.'
'Oh!'  He looked round for something else to talk about; and
glancing up at the moon, made some remark upon the beauty of the
evening, which I did not answer, as being irrelevant to the
subject.
'Lawrence,' said I, calmly looking him in the face, 'are you in
love with Mrs. Graham?'
Instead of his being deeply offended at this, as I more than half
expected he would, the first start of surprise, at the audacious
question, was followed by a tittering laugh, as if he was highly
amused at the idea.
'I in love with her!' repeated he.  'What makes you dream of such a
thing?'
'From the interest you take in the progress of my acquaintance with
the lady, and the changes of my opinion concerning her, I thought
you might be jealous.'
He laughed again.  'Jealous! no.  But I thought you were going to
marry Eliza Millward.'
