
'Hang it! no.'
'Should you wish your daughter to despise you - or, at least, to
feel no vestige of respect for you, and no affection but what is
mingled with the bitterest regret?'
'Oh, no!  I couldn't stand that.'
'And, finally, should you wish your wife to be ready to sink into
the earth when she hears you mentioned; and to loathe the very
sound of your voice, and shudder at your approach?'
'She never will; she likes me all the same, whatever I do.'
'Impossible, Mr. Hattersley! you mistake her quiet submission for
affection.'
'Fire and fury - '
'Now don't burst into a tempest at that.  I don't mean to say she
does not love you - she does, I know, a great deal better than you
deserve; but I am quite sure, that if you behave better, she will
love you more, and if you behave worse, she will love you less and
less, till all is lost in fear, aversion, and bitterness of soul,
if not in secret hatred and contempt.  But, dropping the subject of
affection, should you wish to be the tyrant of her life - to take
away all the sunshine from her existence, and make her thoroughly
miserable?'
'Of course not; and I don't, and I'm not going to.'
'You have done more towards it than you suppose.'
'Pooh, pooh! she's not the susceptible, anxious, worriting creature
you imagine:  she's a little meek, peaceable, affectionate body;
apt to be rather sulky at times, but quiet and cool in the main,
and ready to take things as they come.'
'Think of what she was five years ago, when you married her, and
what she is now.'
'I know she was a little plump lassie then, with a pretty pink and
white face:  now she's a poor little bit of a creature, fading and
melting away like a snow-wreath.  But hang it! - that's not my
fault.'
'What is the cause of it then?  Not years, for she's only five-and-
twenty.'
'It's her own delicate health, and confound it, madam! what would
you make of me? - and the children, to be sure, that worry her to
death between them.'
'No, Mr. Hattersley, the children give her more pleasure than pain:
they are fine, well-dispositioned children - '
'I know they are - bless them!'
'Then why lay the blame on them? - I'll tell you what it is:  it's
silent fretting and constant anxiety on your account, mingled, I
suspect, with something of bodily fear on her own.  When you behave
well, she can only rejoice with trembling; she has no security, no
confidence in your judgment or principles; but is continually
dreading the close of such short-lived felicity; when you behave
ill, her causes of terror and misery are more than any one can tell
but herself.  In patient endurance of evil, she forgets it is our
duty to admonish our neighbours of their transgressions.  Since you
will mistake her silence for indifference, come with me, and I'll
show you one or two of her letters - no breach of confidence, I
hope, since you are her other half.'
He followed me into the library.  I sought out and put into his
hands two of Milicent's letters:  one dated from London, and
written during one of his wildest seasons of reckless dissipation;
the other in the country, during a lucid interval.  The former was
full of trouble and anguish; not accusing him, but deeply
regretting his connection with his profligate companions, abusing
Mr. Grimsby and others, insinuating bitter things against Mr.
Huntingdon, and most ingeniously throwing the blame of her
husband's misconduct on to other men's shoulders.  The latter was
full of hope and joy, yet with a trembling consciousness that this
happiness would not last; praising his goodness to the skies, but
with an evident, though but half-expressed wish, that it were based
on a surer foundation than the natural impulses of the heart, and a
half-prophetic dread of the fall of that house so founded on the
sand, - which fall had shortly after taken place, as Hattersley
must have been conscious while he read.
Almost at the commencement of the first letter I had the unexpected
pleasure of seeing him blush; but he immediately turned his back to
me, and finished the perusal at the window.  At the second, I saw
him, once or twice, raise his hand, and hurriedly pass it across
his face.  Could it be to dash away a tear?  When he had done,
there was an interval spent in clearing his throat and staring out
of the window, and then, after whistling a few bars of a favourite
air, he turned round, gave me back the letters, and silently shook
me by the hand.
'I've been a cursed rascal, God knows,' said he, as he gave it a
hearty squeeze, 'but you see if I don't make amends for it - d-n me
if I don't!'
'Don't curse yourself, Mr. Hattersley; if God had heard half your
invocations of that kind, you would have been in hell long before
now - and you cannot make amends for the past by doing your duty
for the future, inasmuch as your duty is only what you owe to your
Maker, and you cannot do more than fulfil it:  another must make
amends for your past delinquencies.  If you intend to reform,
invoke God's blessing, His mercy, and His aid; not His curse.'
'God help me, then - for I'm sure I need it.  Where's Milicent?'
'She's there, just coming in with her sister.'
He stepped out at the glass door, and went to meet them.  I
followed at a little distance.  Somewhat to his wife's
astonishment, he lifted her off from the ground, and saluted her
with a hearty kiss and a strong embrace; then placing his two hands
on her shoulders, he gave her, I suppose, a sketch of the great
things he meant to do, for she suddenly threw her arms round him,
and burst into tears, exclaiming, - 'Do, do, Ralph - we shall be so
happy!  How very, very good you are!'
