
'Nay, not I,' said he, turning her round, and pushing her towards
me.  'Thank her; it's her doing.'
Milicent flew to thank me, overflowing with gratitude.  I
disclaimed all title to it, telling her her husband was predisposed
to amendment before I added my mite of exhortation and
encouragement, and that I had only done what she might, and ought
to have done herself.
'Oh, no!' cried she; 'I couldn't have influenced him, I'm sure, by
anything that I could have said.  I should only have bothered him
by my clumsy efforts at persuasion, if I had made the attempt.'
'You never tried me, Milly,' said he.
Shortly after they took their leave.  They are now gone on a visit
to Hattersley's father.  After that they will repair to their
country home.  I hope his good resolutions will not fall through,
and poor Milicent will not be again disappointed.  Her last letter
was full of present bliss, and pleasing anticipations for the
future; but no particular temptation has yet occurred to put his
virtue to the test.  Henceforth, however, she will doubtless be
somewhat less timid and reserved, and he more kind and thoughtful.
- Surely, then, her hopes are not unfounded; and I have one bright
spot, at least, whereon to rest my thoughts.
CHAPTER XLIII
October 10th. - Mr. Huntingdon returned about three weeks ago.  His
appearance, his demeanour and conversation, and my feelings with
regard to him, I shall not trouble myself to describe.  The day
after his arrival, however, he surprised me by the announcement of
an intention to procure a governess for little Arthur:  I told him
it was quite unnecessary, not to say ridiculous, at the present
season:  I thought I was fully competent to the task of teaching
him myself - for some years to come, at least:  the child's
education was the only pleasure and business of my life; and since
he had deprived me of every other occupation, he might surely leave
me that.
He said I was not fit to teach children, or to be with them:  I had
already reduced the boy to little better than an automaton; I had
broken his fine spirit with my rigid severity; and I should freeze
all the sunshine out of his heart, and make him as gloomy an
ascetic as myself, if I had the handling of him much longer.  And
poor Rachel, too, came in for her share of abuse, as usual; he
cannot endure Rachel, because he knows she has a proper
appreciation of him.
I calmly defended our several qualifications as nurse and
governess, and still resisted the proposed addition to our family;
but he cut me short by saying it was no use bothering about the
matter, for he had engaged a governess already, and she was coming
next week; so that all I had to do was to get things ready for her
reception.  This was a rather startling piece of intelligence.  I
ventured to inquire her name and address, by whom she had been
recommended, or how he had been led to make choice of her.
'She is a very estimable, pious young person,' said he; 'you
needn't be afraid.  Her name is Myers, I believe; and she was
recommended to me by a respectable old dowager:  a lady of high
repute in the religious world.  I have not seen her myself, and
therefore cannot give you a particular account of her person and
conversation, and so forth; but, if the old lady's eulogies are
correct, you will find her to possess all desirable qualifications
for her position:  an inordinate love of children among the rest.'
All this was gravely and quietly spoken, but there was a laughing
demon in his half-averted eye that boded no good, I imagined.
However, I thought of my asylum in -shire, and made no further
objections.
When Miss Myers arrived, I was not prepared to give her a very
cordial reception.  Her appearance was not particularly calculated
to produce a favourable impression at first sight, nor did her
manners and subsequent conduct, in any degree, remove the prejudice
I had already conceived against her.  Her attainments were limited,
her intellect noways above mediocrity.  She had a fine voice, and
could sing like a nightingale, and accompany herself sufficiently
well on the piano; but these were her only accomplishments.  There
was a look of guile and subtlety in her face, a sound of it in her
voice.  She seemed afraid of me, and would start if I suddenly
approached her.  In her behaviour she was respectful and
complaisant, even to servility:  she attempted to flatter and fawn
upon me at first, but I soon checked that.  Her fondness for her
little pupil was overstrained, and I was obliged to remonstrate
with her on the subject of over-indulgence and injudicious praise;
but she could not gain his heart.  Her piety consisted in an
occasional heaving of sighs, and uplifting of eyes to the ceiling,
and the utterance of a few cant phrases.  She told me she was a
clergyman's daughter, and had been left an orphan from her
childhood, but had had the good fortune to obtain a situation in a
very pious family; and then she spoke so gratefully of the kindness
she had experienced from its different members, that I reproached
myself for my uncharitable thoughts and unfriendly conduct, and
relented for a time, but not for long:  my causes of dislike were
too rational, my suspicions too well founded for that; and I knew
it was my duty to watch and scrutinize till those suspicions were
either satisfactorily removed or confirmed.
I asked the name and residence of the kind and pious family.  She
mentioned a common name, and an unknown and distant place of abode,
but told me they were now on the Continent, and their present
address was unknown to her.  I never saw her speak much to Mr.
Huntingdon; but he would frequently look into the school-room to
see how little Arthur got on with his new companion, when I was not
there.  In the evening, she sat with us in the drawing-room, and
would sing and play to amuse him or us, as she pretended, and was
very attentive to his wants, and watchful to anticipate them,
though she only talked to me; indeed, he was seldom in a condition
to be talked to.  Had she been other than she was, I should have
felt her presence a great relief to come between us thus, except,
indeed, that I should have been thoroughly ashamed for any decent
person to see him as he often was.
I did not mention my suspicions to Rachel; but she, having
sojourned for half a century in this land of sin and sorrow, has
learned to be suspicious herself.  She told me from the first she
was 'down of that new governess,' and I soon found she watched her
quite as narrowly as I did; and I was glad of it, for I longed to
know the truth:  the atmosphere of Grassdale seemed to stifle me,
and I could only live by thinking of Wildfell Hall.
At last, one morning, she entered my chamber with such intelligence
that my resolution was taken before she had ceased to speak.  While
she dressed me I explained to her my intentions and what assistance
I should require from her, and told her which of my things she was
to pack up, and what she was to leave behind for herself, as I had
no other means of recompensing her for this sudden dismissal after
her long and faithful service:  a circumstance I most deeply
regretted, but could not avoid.
'And what will you do, Rachel?' said I; 'will you go home, or seek
another place?'
'I have no home, ma'am, but with you,' she replied; 'and if I leave
you I'll never go into place again as long as I live.'
'But I can't afford to live like a lady now,' returned I:  'I must
be my own maid and my child's nurse.'
'What signifies!' replied she, in some excitement.  'You'll want
somebody to clean and wash, and cook, won't you?  I can do all
that; and never mind the wages:  I've my bits o' savings yet, and
if you wouldn't take me I should have to find my own board and
lodging out of 'em somewhere, or else work among strangers:  and
it's what I'm not used to:  so you can please yourself, ma'am.'
Her voice quavered as she spoke, and the tears stood in her eyes.
'I should like it above all things, Rachel, and I'd give you such
wages as I could afford:  such as I should give to any servant-of-
all-work I might employ:  but don't you see I should be dragging
you down with me when you have done nothing to deserve it?'
'Oh, fiddle!' ejaculated she.
