
'And, besides, my future way of living will be so widely different
to the past:  so different to all you have been accustomed to - '
'Do you think, ma'am, I can't bear what my missis can? surely I'm
not so proud and so dainty as that comes to; and my little master,
too, God bless him!'
'But I'm young, Rachel; I sha'n't mind it; and Arthur is young too:
it will be nothing to him.'
'Nor me either:  I'm not so old but what I can stand hard fare and
hard work, if it's only to help and comfort them as I've loved like
my own bairns:  for all I'm too old to bide the thoughts o' leaving
'em in trouble and danger, and going amongst strangers myself.'
'Then you sha'n't, Rachel!' cried I, embracing my faithful friend.
'We'll all go together, and you shall see how the new life suits
you.'
'Bless you, honey!' cried she, affectionately returning my embrace.
'Only let us get shut of this wicked house, and we'll do right
enough, you'll see.'
'So think I,' was my answer; and so that point was settled.
By that morning's post I despatched a few hasty lines to Frederick,
beseeching him to prepare my asylum for my immediate reception:
for I should probably come to claim it within a day after the
receipt of that note:  and telling him, in few words, the cause of
my sudden resolution.  I then wrote three letters of adieu:  the
first to Esther Hargrave, in which I told her that I found it
impossible to stay any longer at Grassdale, or to leave my son
under his father's protection; and, as it was of the last
importance that our future abode should be unknown to him and his
acquaintance, I should disclose it to no one but my brother,
through the medium of whom I hoped still to correspond with my
friends.  I then gave her his address, exhorted her to write
frequently, reiterated some of my former admonitions regarding her
own concerns, and bade her a fond farewell.
The second was to Milicent; much to the same effect, but a little
more confidential, as befitted our longer intimacy, and her greater
experience and better acquaintance with my circumstances.
The third was to my aunt:  a much more difficult and painful
undertaking, and therefore I had left it to the last; but I must
give her some explanation of that extraordinary step I had taken:
and that quickly, for she and my uncle would no doubt hear of it
within a day or two after my disappearance, as it was probable that
Mr. Huntingdon would speedily apply to them to know what was become
of me.  At last, however, I told her I was sensible of my error:  I
did not complain of its punishment, and I was sorry to trouble my
friends with its consequences; but in duty to my son I must submit
no longer; it was absolutely necessary that he should be delivered
from his father's corrupting influence.  I should not disclose my
place of refuge even to her, in order that she and my uncle might
be able, with truth, to deny all knowledge concerning it; but any
communications addressed to me under cover to my brother would be
certain to reach me.  I hoped she and my uncle would pardon the
step I had taken, for if they knew all, I was sure they would not
blame me; and I trusted they would not afflict themselves on my
account, for if I could only reach my retreat in safety and keep it
unmolested, I should be very happy, but for the thoughts of them;
and should be quite contented to spend my life in obscurity,
devoting myself to the training up of my child, and teaching him to
avoid the errors of both his parents.
These things were done yesterday:  I have given two whole days to
the preparation for our departure, that Frederick may have more
time to prepare the rooms, and Rachel to pack up the things:  for
the latter task must be done with the utmost caution and secrecy,
and there is no one but me to assist her.  I can help to get the
articles together, but I do not understand the art of stowing them
into the boxes, so as to take up the smallest possible space; and
there are her own things to do, as well as mine and Arthur's.  I
can ill afford to leave anything behind, since I have no money,
except a few guineas in my purse; and besides, as Rachel observed,
whatever I left would most likely become the property of Miss
Myers, and I should not relish that.
But what trouble I have had throughout these two days, struggling
to appear calm and collected, to meet him and her as usual, when I
was obliged to meet them, and forcing myself to leave my little
Arthur in her hands for hours together!  But I trust these trials
are over now:  I have laid him in my bed for better security, and
never more, I trust, shall his innocent lips be defiled by their
contaminating kisses, or his young ears polluted by their words.
But shall we escape in safety?  Oh, that the morning were come, and
we were on our way at least!  This evening, when I had given Rachel
all the assistance I could, and had nothing left me but to wait,
and wish and tremble, I became so greatly agitated that I knew not
what to do.  I went down to dinner, but I could not force myself to
eat.  Mr. Huntingdon remarked the circumstance.
'What's to do with you now?' said he, when the removal of the
second course gave him time to look about him.
'I am not well,' I replied:  'I think I must lie down a little; you
won't miss me much?'
'Not the least:  if you leave your chair, it'll do just as well -
better, a trifle,' he muttered, as I left the room, 'for I can
fancy somebody else fills it.'
'Somebody else may fill it to-morrow,' I thought, but did not say.
'There!  I've seen the last of you, I hope,' I muttered, as I
closed the door upon him.
Rachel urged me to seek repose at once, to recruit my strength for
to-morrow's journey, as we must be gone before the dawn; but in my
present state of nervous excitement that was entirely out of the
question.  It was equally out of the question to sit, or wander
about my room, counting the hours and the minutes between me and
the appointed time of action, straining my ears and trembling at
every sound, lest someone should discover and betray us after all.
I took up a book and tried to read:  my eyes wandered over the
pages, but it was impossible to bind my thoughts to their contents.
Why not have recourse to the old expedient, and add this last event
to my chronicle?  I opened its pages once more, and wrote the above
account - with difficulty, at first, but gradually my mind became
more calm and steady.  Thus several hours have passed away:  the
time is drawing near; and now my eyes feel heavy and my frame
exhausted.  I will commend my cause to God, and then lie down and
gain an hour or two of sleep; and then! -
Little Arthur sleeps soundly.  All the house is still:  there can
be no one watching.  The boxes were all corded by Benson, and
quietly conveyed down the back stairs after dusk, and sent away in
a cart to the M- coach-office.  The name upon the cards was Mrs.
Graham, which appellation I mean henceforth to adopt.  My mother's
maiden name was Graham, and therefore I fancy I have some claim to
it, and prefer it to any other, except my own, which I dare not
resume.
CHAPTER XLIV
October 24th. - Thank heaven, I am free and safe at last.  Early we
rose, swiftly and quietly dressed, slowly and stealthily descended
to the hall, where Benson stood ready with a light, to open the
door and fasten it after us.  We were obliged to let one man into
our secret on account of the boxes, &c.  All the servants were but
too well acquainted with their master's conduct, and either Benson
or John would have been willing to serve me; but as the former was
more staid and elderly, and a crony of Rachel's besides, I of
course directed her to make choice of him as her assistant and
confidant on the occasion, as far as necessity demanded, I only
hope he may not be brought into trouble thereby, and only wish I
could reward him for the perilous service he was so ready to
undertake.  I slipped two guineas into his hand, by way of
remembrance, as he stood in the doorway, holding the candle to
light our departure, with a tear in his honest grey eye, and a host
of good wishes depicted on his solemn countenance.  Alas!  I could
offer no more:  I had barely sufficient remaining for the probable
expenses of the journey.
What trembling joy it was when the little wicket closed behind us,
as we issued from the park!  Then, for one moment, I paused, to
inhale one draught of that cool, bracing air, and venture one look
back upon the house.  All was dark and still:  no light glimmered
in the windows, no wreath of smoke obscured the stars that sparkled
above it in the frosty sky.  As I bade farewell for ever to that
place, the scene of so much guilt and misery, I felt glad that I
had not left it before, for now there was no doubt about the
propriety of such a step - no shadow of remorse for him I left
behind.  There was nothing to disturb my joy but the fear of
detection; and every step removed us further from the chance of
that.
