
It was now near eight o'clock in the morning, for my candle had
expired in the midst of my perusal, leaving me no alternative but
to get another, at the expense of alarming the house, or to go to
bed, and wait the return of daylight.  On my mother's account, I
chose the latter; but how willingly I sought my pillow, and how
much sleep it brought me, I leave you to imagine.
At the first appearance of dawn, I rose, and brought the manuscript
to the window, but it was impossible to read it yet.  I devoted
half an hour to dressing, and then returned to it again.  Now, with
a little difficulty, I could manage; and with intense and eager
interest, I devoured the remainder of its contents.  When it was
ended, and my transient regret at its abrupt conclusion was over, I
opened the window and put out my head to catch the cooling breeze,
and imbibe deep draughts of the pure morning air.  A splendid
morning it was; the half-frozen dew lay thick on the grass, the
swallows were twittering round me, the rooks cawing, and cows
lowing in the distance; and early frost and summer sunshine mingled
their sweetness in the air.  But I did not think of that:  a
confusion of countless thoughts and varied emotions crowded upon me
while I gazed abstractedly on the lovely face of nature.  Soon,
however, this chaos of thoughts and passions cleared away, giving
place to two distinct emotions:  joy unspeakable that my adored
Helen was all I wished to think her - that through the noisome
vapours of the world's aspersions and my own fancied convictions,
her character shone bright, and clear, and stainless as that sun I
could not bear to look on; and shame and deep remorse for my own
conduct.
Immediately after breakfast I hurried over to Wildfell Hall.
Rachel had risen many degrees in my estimation since yesterday.  I
was ready to greet her quite as an old friend; but every kindly
impulse was checked by the look of cold distrust she cast upon me
on opening the door.  The old virgin had constituted herself the
guardian of her lady's honour, I suppose, and doubtless she saw in
me another Mr. Hargrave, only the more dangerous in being more
esteemed and trusted by her mistress.
'Missis can't see any one to-day, sir - she's poorly,' said she, in
answer to my inquiry for Mrs. Graham.
'But I must see her, Rachel,' said I, placing my hand on the door
to prevent its being shut against me.
'Indeed, sir, you can't,' replied she, settling her countenance in
still more iron frigidity than before.
'Be so good as to announce me.'
'It's no manner of use, Mr. Markham; she's poorly, I tell you.'
Just in time to prevent me from committing the impropriety of
taking the citadel by storm, and pushing forward unannounced, an
inner door opened, and little Arthur appeared with his frolicsome
playfellow, the dog.  He seized my hand between both his, and
smilingly drew me forward.
'Mamma says you're to come in, Mr. Markham,' said he, 'and I am to
go out and play with Rover.'
Rachel retired with a sigh, and I stepped into the parlour and shut
the door.  There, before the fire-place, stood the tall, graceful
figure, wasted with many sorrows.  I cast the manuscript on the
table, and looked in her face.  Anxious and pale, it was turned
towards me; her clear, dark eyes were fixed on mine with a gaze so
intensely earnest that they bound me like a spell.
'Have you looked it over?' she murmured.  The spell was broken.
'I've read it through,' said I, advancing into the room, - 'and I
want to know if you'll forgive me - if you can forgive me?'
She did not answer, but her eyes glistened, and a faint red mantled
on her lip and cheek.  As I approached, she abruptly turned away,
and went to the window.  It was not in anger, I was well assured,
but only to conceal or control her emotion.  I therefore ventured
to follow and stand beside her there, - but not to speak.  She gave
me her hand, without turning her head, and murmured in a voice she
strove in vain to steady, - 'Can you forgive me?'
It might be deemed a breach of trust, I thought, to convey that
lily hand to my lips, so I only gently pressed it between my own,
and smilingly replied, - 'I hardly can.  You should have told me
this before.  It shows a want of confidence - '
'Oh, no,' cried she, eagerly interrupting me; 'it was not that.  It
was no want of confidence in you; but if I had told you anything of
my history, I must have told you all, in order to excuse my
conduct; and I might well shrink from such a disclosure, till
necessity obliged me to make it.  But you forgive me? - I have done
very, very wrong, I know; but, as usual, I have reaped the bitter
fruits of my own error, - and must reap them to the end.'
Bitter, indeed, was the tone of anguish, repressed by resolute
firmness, in which this was spoken.  Now, I raised her hand to my
lips, and fervently kissed it again and again; for tears prevented
any other reply.  She suffered these wild caresses without
resistance or resentment; then, suddenly turning from me, she paced
twice or thrice through the room.  I knew by the contraction of her
brow, the tight compression of her lips, and wringing of her hands,
that meantime a violent conflict between reason and passion was
silently passing within.  At length she paused before the empty
fire-place, and turning to me, said calmly - if that might be
called calmness which was so evidently the result of a violent
effort, - 'Now, Gilbert, you must leave me - not this moment, but
soon - and you must never come again.'
'Never again, Helen? just when I love you more than ever.'
'For that very reason, if it be so, we should not meet again.  I
thought this interview was necessary - at least, I persuaded myself
it was so - that we might severally ask and receive each other's
pardon for the past; but there can be no excuse for another.  I
shall leave this place, as soon as I have means to seek another
asylum; but our intercourse must end here.'
'End here!' echoed I; and approaching the high, carved chimney-
piece, I leant my hand against its heavy mouldings, and dropped my
forehead upon it in silent, sullen despondency.
'You must not come again,' continued she.  There was a slight
tremor in her voice, but I thought her whole manner was provokingly
composed, considering the dreadful sentence she pronounced.  'You
must know why I tell you so,' she resumed; 'and you must see that
it is better to part at once:  - if it be hard to say adieu for
ever, you ought to help me.'  She paused.  I did not answer.  'Will
you promise not to come? - if you won't, and if you do come here
again, you will drive me away before I know where to find another
place of refuge - or how to seek it.'
'Helen,' said I, turning impatiently towards her, 'I cannot discuss
the matter of eternal separation calmly and dispassionately as you
can do.  It is no question of mere expedience with me; it is a
question of life and death!'
She was silent.  Her pale lips quivered, and her fingers trembled
with agitation, as she nervously entwined them in the hair-chain to
which was appended her small gold watch - the only thing of value
she had permitted herself to keep.  I had said an unjust and cruel
thing; but I must needs follow it up with something worse.
'But, Helen!' I began in a soft, low tone, not daring to raise my
eyes to her face, 'that man is not your husband:  in the sight of
heaven he has forfeited all claim to - '  She seized my arm with a
grasp of startling energy.
'Gilbert, don't!' she cried, in a tone that would have pierced a
heart of adamant.  'For God's sake, don't you attempt these
arguments!  No fiend could torture me like this!'
