
'I won't, I won't!' said I, gently laying my hand on hers; almost
as much alarmed at her vehemence as ashamed of my own misconduct.
'Instead of acting like a true friend,' continued she, breaking
from me, and throwing herself into the old arm-chair, 'and helping
me with all your might - or rather taking your own part in the
struggle of right against passion - you leave all the burden to me;
- and not satisfied with that, you do your utmost to fight against
me - when you know that! - ' she paused, and hid her face in her
handkerchief.
'Forgive me, Helen!' pleaded I.  'I will never utter another word
on the subject.  But may we not still meet as friends?'
'It will not do,' she replied, mournfully shaking her head; and
then she raised her eyes to mine, with a mildly reproachful look
that seemed to say, 'You must know that as well as I.'
'Then what must we do?' cried I, passionately.  But immediately I
added in a quieter tone - 'I'll do whatever you desire; only don't
say that this meeting is to be our last.'
'And why not?  Don't you know that every time we meet the thoughts
of the final parting will become more painful?  Don't you feel that
every interview makes us dearer to each other than the last?'
The utterance of this last question was hurried and low, and the
downcast eyes and burning blush too plainly showed that she, at
least, had felt it.  It was scarcely prudent to make such an
admission, or to add - as she presently did - 'I have power to bid
you go, now:  another time it might be different,' - but I was not
base enough to attempt to take advantage of her candour.
'But we may write,' I timidly suggested.  'You will not deny me
that consolation?'
'We can hear of each other through my brother.'
'Your brother!'  A pang of remorse and shame shot through me.  She
had not heard of the injury he had sustained at my hands; and I had
not the courage to tell her.  'Your brother will not help us,' I
said:  'he would have all communion between us to be entirely at an
end.'
'And he would be right, I suppose.  As a friend of both, he would
wish us both well; and every friend would tell us it was our
interest, as well as our duty, to forget each other, though we
might not see it ourselves.  But don't be afraid, Gilbert,' she
added, smiling sadly at my manifest discomposure; 'there is little
chance of my forgetting you.  But I did not mean that Frederick
should be the means of transmitting messages between us - only that
each might know, through him, of the other's welfare; - and more
than this ought not to be:  for you are young, Gilbert, and you
ought to marry - and will some time, though you may think it
impossible now:  and though I hardly can say I wish you to forget
me, I know it is right that you should, both for your own
happiness, and that of your future wife; - and therefore I must and
will wish it,' she added resolutely.
'And you are young too, Helen,' I boldly replied; 'and when that
profligate scoundrel has run through his career, you will give your
hand to me - I'll wait till then.'
But she would not leave me this support.  Independently of the
moral evil of basing our hopes upon the death of another, who, if
unfit for this world, was at least no less so for the next, and
whose amelioration would thus become our bane and his greatest
transgression our greatest benefit, - she maintained it to be
madness:  many men of Mr. Huntingdon's habits had lived to a ripe
though miserable old age.  'And if I,' said she, 'am young in
years, I am old in sorrow; but even if trouble should fail to kill
me before vice destroys him, think, if he reached but fifty years
or so, would you wait twenty or fifteen - in vague uncertainty and
suspense - through all the prime of youth and manhood - and marry
at last a woman faded and worn as I shall be - without ever having
seen me from this day to that? - You would not,' she continued,
interrupting my earnest protestations of unfailing constancy, - 'or
if you would, you should not.  Trust me, Gilbert; in this matter I
know better than you.  You think me cold and stony-hearted, and you
may, but - '
'I don't, Helen.'
'Well, never mind:  you might if you would:  but I have not spent
my solitude in utter idleness, and I am not speaking now from the
impulse of the moment, as you do.  I have thought of all these
matters again and again; I have argued these questions with myself,
and pondered well our past, and present, and future career; and,
believe me, I have come to the right conclusion at last.  Trust my
words rather than your own feelings now, and in a few years you
will see that I was right - though at present I hardly can see it
myself,' she murmured with a sigh as she rested her head on her
hand.  'And don't argue against me any more:  all you can say has
been already said by my own heart and refuted by my reason.  It was
hard enough to combat those suggestions as they were whispered
within me; in your mouth they are ten times worse, and if you knew
how much they pain me you would cease at once, I know.  If you knew
my present feelings, you would even try to relieve them at the
expense of your own.'
'I will go - in a minute, if that can relieve you - and NEVER
return!' said I, with bitter emphasis.  'But, if we may never meet,
and never hope to meet again, is it a crime to exchange our
thoughts by letter?  May not kindred spirits meet, and mingle in
communion, whatever be the fate and circumstances of their earthly
tenements?'
'They may, they may!' cried she, with a momentary burst of glad
enthusiasm.  'I thought of that too, Gilbert, but I feared to
mention it, because I feared you would not understand my views upon
the subject.  I fear it even now - I fear any kind friend would
tell us we are both deluding ourselves with the idea of keeping up
a spiritual intercourse without hope or prospect of anything
further - without fostering vain regrets and hurtful aspirations,
and feeding thoughts that should be sternly and pitilessly left to
perish of inanition.'
'Never mind our kind friends:  if they can part our bodies, it is
enough; in God's name, let them not sunder our souls!' cried I, in
terror lest she should deem it her duty to deny us this last
remaining consolation.
'But no letters can pass between us here,' said she, 'without
giving fresh food for scandal; and when I departed, I had intended
that my new abode should be unknown to you as to the rest of the
world; not that I should doubt your word if you promised not to
visit me, but I thought you would be more tranquil in your own mind
if you knew you could not do it, and likely to find less difficulty
in abstracting yourself from me if you could not picture my
situation to your mind.  But listen,' said she, smilingly putting
up her finger to check my impatient reply:  'in six months you
shall hear from Frederick precisely where I am; and if you still
retain your wish to write to me, and think you can maintain a
correspondence all thought, all spirit - such as disembodied souls
or unimpassioned friends, at least, might hold, - write, and I will
answer you.'
'Six months!'
'Yes, to give your present ardour time to cool, and try the truth
and constancy of your soul's love for mine.  And now, enough has
been said between us.  Why can't we part at once?' exclaimed she,
almost wildly, after a moment's pause, as she suddenly rose from
her chair, with her hands resolutely clasped together.  I thought
it was my duty to go without delay; and I approached and half
extended my hand as if to take leave - she grasped it in silence.
But this thought of final separation was too intolerable:  it
seemed to squeeze the blood out of my heart; and my feet were glued
to the floor.
'And must we never meet again?' I murmured, in the anguish of my
soul.
'We shall meet in heaven.  Let us think of that,' said she in a
tone of desperate calmness; but her eyes glittered wildly, and her
face was deadly pale.
'But not as we are now,' I could not help replying.  'It gives me
little consolation to think I shall next behold you as a
disembodied spirit, or an altered being, with a frame perfect and
glorious, but not like this! - and a heart, perhaps, entirely
estranged from me.'
'No, Gilbert, there is perfect love in heaven!'
