
'And how came you to know that I was her brother?' asked he, in
some anxiety.
'She told me herself.  She told me all.  She knew I might be
trusted.  But you needn't disturb yourself about that, Mr.
Lawrence, for I've seen the last of her!'
'The last!  Is she gone, then?'
'No; but she has bid adieu to me, and I have promised never to go
near that house again while she inhabits it.'  I could have groaned
aloud at the bitter thoughts awakened by this turn in the
discourse.  But I only clenched my hands and stamped my foot upon
the rug.  My companion, however, was evidently relieved.
'You have done right,' he said, in a tone of unqualified
approbation, while his face brightened into almost a sunny
expression.  'And as for the mistake, I am sorry for both our sakes
that it should have occurred.  Perhaps you can forgive my want of
candour, and remember, as some partial mitigation of the offence,
how little encouragement to friendly confidence you have given me
of late.'
'Yes, yes - I remember it all:  nobody can blame me more than I
blame myself in my own heart; at any rate, nobody can regret more
sincerely than I do the result of my brutality, as you rightly term
it.'
'Never mind that,' said he, faintly smiling; 'let us forget all
unpleasant words on both sides, as well as deeds, and consign to
oblivion everything that we have cause to regret.  Have you any
objection to take my hand, or you'd rather not?'  It trembled
through weakness as he held it out, and dropped before I had time
to catch it and give it a hearty squeeze, which he had not the
strength to return.
'How dry and burning your hand is, Lawrence,' said I.  'You are
really ill, and I have made you worse by all this talk.'
'Oh, it is nothing; only a cold got by the rain.'
'My doing, too.'
'Never mind that.  But tell me, did you mention this affair to my
sister?'
'To confess the truth, I had not the courage to do so; but when you
tell her, will you just say that I deeply regret it, and - ?'
'Oh, never fear!  I shall say nothing against you, as long as you
keep your good resolution of remaining aloof from her.  She has not
heard of my illness, then, that you are aware of?'
'I think not.'
'I'm glad of that, for I have been all this time tormenting myself
with the fear that somebody would tell her I was dying, or
desperately ill, and she would be either distressing herself on
account of her inability to hear from me or do me any good, or
perhaps committing the madness of coming to see me.  I must
contrive to let her know something about it, if I can,' continued
he, reflectively, 'or she will be hearing some such story.  Many
would be glad to tell her such news, just to see how she would take
it; and then she might expose herself to fresh scandal.'
'I wish I had told her,' said I.  'If it were not for my promise, I
would tell her now.'
'By no means!  I am not dreaming of that; - but if I were to write
a short note, now, not mentioning you, Markham, but just giving a
slight account of my illness, by way of excuse for my not coming to
see her, and to put her on her guard against any exaggerated
reports she may hear, - and address it in a disguised hand - would
you do me the favour to slip it into the post-office as you pass?
for I dare not trust any of the servants in such a case.'
Most willingly I consented, and immediately brought him his desk.
There was little need to disguise his hand, for the poor fellow
seemed to have considerable difficulty in writing at all, so as to
be legible.  When the note was done, I thought it time to retire,
and took leave, after asking if there was anything in the world I
could do for him, little or great, in the way of alleviating his
sufferings, and repairing the injury I had done.
'No,' said he; 'you have already done much towards it; you have
done more for me than the most skilful physician could do:  for you
have relieved my mind of two great burdens - anxiety on my sister's
account, and deep regret upon your own:  for I do believe these two
sources of torment have had more effect in working me up into a
fever than anything else; and I am persuaded I shall soon recover
now.  There is one more thing you can do for me, and that is, come
and see me now and then - for you see I am very lonely here, and I
promise your entrance shall not be disputed again.'
I engaged to do so, and departed with a cordial pressure of the
hand.  I posted the letter on my way home, most manfully resisting
the temptation of dropping in a word from myself at the same time.
CHAPTER XLVI
