
'Have you done?' asked my companion quietly.
'Yes; - I know you hate me for my impertinence, but I don't care if
it only conduces to preserve you from that fatal mistake.'
'Well!' returned he, with a rather wintry smile - 'I'm glad you
have overcome or forgotten your own afflictions so far as to be
able to study so deeply the affairs of others, and trouble your
head so unnecessarily about the fancied or possible calamities of
their future life.'
We parted - somewhat coldly again:  but still we did not cease to
be friends; and my well-meant warning, though it might have been
more judiciously delivered, as well as more thankfully received,
was not wholly unproductive of the desired effect:  his visit to
the Wilsons was not repeated, and though, in our subsequent
interviews, he never mentioned her name to me, nor I to him, - I
have reason to believe he pondered my words in his mind, eagerly
though covertly sought information respecting the fair lady from
other quarters, secretly compared my character of her with what he
had himself observed and what he heard from others, and finally
came to the conclusion that, all things considered, she had much
better remain Miss Wilson of Ryecote Farm than be transmuted into
Mrs. Lawrence of Woodford Hall.  I believe, too, that he soon
learned to contemplate with secret amazement his former
predilection, and to congratulate himself on the lucky escape he
had made; but he never confessed it to me, or hinted one word of
acknowledgment for the part I had had in his deliverance, but this
was not surprising to any one that knew him as I did.
As for Jane Wilson, she, of course, was disappointed and embittered
by the sudden cold neglect and ultimate desertion of her former
admirer.  Had I done wrong to blight her cherished hopes?  I think
not; and certainly my conscience has never accused me, from that
day to this, of any evil design in the matter.
CHAPTER XLVII
One morning, about the beginning of November, while I was inditing
some business letters, shortly after breakfast, Eliza Millward came
to call upon my sister.  Rose had neither the discrimination nor
the virulence to regard the little demon as I did, and they still
preserved their former intimacy.  At the moment of her arrival,
however, there was no one in the room but Fergus and myself, my
mother and sister being both of them absent, 'on household cares
intent'; but I was not going to lay myself out for her amusement,
whoever else might so incline:  I merely honoured her with a
careless salutation and a few words of course, and then went on
with my writing, leaving my brother to be more polite if he chose.
But she wanted to tease me.
'What a pleasure it is to find you at home, Mr. Markham!' said she,
with a disingenuously malicious smile.  'I so seldom see you now,
for you never come to the vicarage.  Papa, is quite offended, I can
tell you,' she added playfully, looking into my face with an
impertinent laugh, as she seated herself, half beside and half
before my desk, off the corner of the table.
'I have had a good deal to do of late,' said I, without looking up
from my letter.
'Have you, indeed!  Somebody said you had been strangely neglecting
your business these last few months.'
'Somebody said wrong, for, these last two months especially, I have
been particularly plodding and diligent.'
'Ah! well, there's nothing like active employment, I suppose, to
console the afflicted; - and, excuse me, Mr. Markham, but you look
so very far from well, and have been, by all accounts, so moody and
thoughtful of late, - I could almost think you have some secret
care preying on your spirits.  Formerly,' said she timidly, 'I
could have ventured to ask you what it was, and what I could do to
comfort you:  I dare not do it now.'
'You're very kind, Miss Eliza.  When I think you can do anything to
comfort me, I'll make bold to tell you.'
'Pray do! - I suppose I mayn't guess what it is that troubles you?'
'There's no necessity, for I'll tell you plainly.  The thing that
troubles me the most at present is a young lady sitting at my
elbow, and preventing me from finishing my letter, and, thereafter,
repairing to my daily business.'
Before she could reply to this ungallant speech, Rose entered the
room; and Miss Eliza rising to greet her, they both seated
themselves near the fire, where that idle lad Fergus was standing,
leaning his shoulder against the corner of the chimney-piece, with
his legs crossed and his hands in his breeches-pockets.
'Now, Rose, I'll tell you a piece of news - I hope you have not
heard it before:  for good, bad, or indifferent, one always likes
to be the first to tell.  It's about that sad Mrs. Graham - '
'Hush-sh-sh!' whispered Fergus, in a tone of solemn import.  '"We
never mention her; her name is never heard."'  And glancing up, I
caught him with his eye askance on me, and his finger pointed to
his forehead; then, winking at the young lady with a doleful shake
of the head, be whispered - 'A monomania - but don't mention it -
all right but that.'
'I should be sorry to injure any one's feelings,' returned she,
speaking below her breath.  'Another time, perhaps.'
'Speak out, Miss Eliza!' said I, not deigning to notice the other's
buffooneries:  'you needn't fear to say anything in my presence.'
'Well,' answered she, 'perhaps you know already that Mrs. Graham's
husband is not really dead, and that she had run away from him?'  I
started, and felt my face glow; but I bent it over my letter, and
went on folding it up as she proceeded.  'But perhaps you did not
know that she is now gone back to him again, and that a perfect
reconciliation has taken place between them?  Only think,' she
continued, turning to the confounded Rose, 'what a fool the man
must be!'
