
'And who gave you this piece of intelligence, Miss Eliza?' said I,
interrupting my sister's exclamations.
'I had it from a very authentic source.'
'From whom, may I ask?'
'From one of the servants at Woodford.'
'Oh!  I was not aware that you were on such intimate terms with Mr.
Lawrence's household.'
'It was not from the man himself that I heard it, but he told it in
confidence to our maid Sarah, and Sarah told it to me.'
'In confidence, I suppose?  And you tell it in confidence to us?
But I can tell you that it is but a lame story after all, and
scarcely one-half of it true.'
While I spoke I completed the sealing and direction of my letters,
with a somewhat unsteady hand, in spite of all my efforts to retain
composure, and in spite of my firm conviction that the story was a
lame one - that the supposed Mrs. Graham, most certainly, had not
voluntarily gone back to her husband, or dreamt of a
reconciliation.  Most likely she was gone away, and the tale-
bearing servant, not knowing what was become of her, had
conjectured that such was the case, and our fair visitor had
detailed it as a certainty, delighted with such an opportunity of
tormenting me.  But it was possible - barely possible - that some
one might have betrayed her, and she had been taken away by force.
Determined to know the worst, I hastily pocketed my two letters,
and muttered something about being too late for the post, left the
room, rushed into the yard, and vociferously called for my horse.
No one being there, I dragged him out of the stable myself,
strapped the saddle on to his back and the bridle on to his head,
mounted, and speedily galloped away to Woodford.  I found its owner
pensively strolling in the grounds.
'Is your sister gone?' were my first words as I grasped his hand,
instead of the usual inquiry after his health.
'Yes, she's gone,' was his answer, so calmly spoken that my terror
was at once removed.
'I suppose I mayn't know where she is?' said I, as I dismounted,
and relinquished my horse to the gardener, who, being the only
servant within call, had been summoned by his master, from his
employment of raking up the dead leaves on the lawn, to take him to
the stables.
My companion gravely took my arm, and leading me away to the
garden, thus answered my question, - 'She is at Grassdale Manor, in
-shire.'
'Where?' cried I, with a convulsive start.
'At Grassdale Manor.'
'How was it?' I gasped.  'Who betrayed her?'
'She went of her own accord.'
'Impossible, Lawrence!  She could not be so frantic!' exclaimed I,
vehemently grasping his arm, as if to force him to unsay those
hateful words.
'She did,' persisted he in the same grave, collected manner as
before; 'and not without reason,' he continued, gently disengaging
himself from my grasp.  'Mr. Huntingdon is ill.'
'And so she went to nurse him?'
'Yes.'
'Fool!' I could not help exclaiming, and Lawrence looked up with a
rather reproachful glance.  'Is he dying, then?'
'I think not, Markham.'
'And how many more nurses has he?  How many ladies are there
besides to take care of him?'
'None; he was alone, or she would not have gone.'
'Oh, confound it!  This is intolerable!'
