
'What is?  That he should be alone?'
I attempted no reply, for I was not sure that this circumstance did
not partly conduce to my distraction.  I therefore continued to
pace the walk in silent anguish, with my hand pressed to my
forehead; then suddenly pausing and turning to my companion, I
impatiently exclaimed, 'Why did she take this infatuated step?
What fiend persuaded her to it?'
'Nothing persuaded her but her own sense of duty.'
'Humbug!'
'I was half inclined to say so myself, Markham, at first.  I assure
you it was not by my advice that she went, for I detest that man as
fervently as you can do, - except, indeed, that his reformation
would give me much greater pleasure than his death; but all I did
was to inform her of the circumstance of his illness (the
consequence of a fall from his horse in hunting), and to tell her
that that unhappy person, Miss Myers, had left him some time ago.'
'It was ill done!  Now, when he finds the convenience of her
presence, he will make all manner of lying speeches and false, fair
promises for the future, and she will believe him, and then her
condition will be ten times worse and ten times more irremediable
than before.'
'There does not appear to be much ground for such apprehensions at
present,' said he, producing a letter from his pocket.  'From the
account I received this morning, I should say - '
It was her writing!  By an irresistible impulse I held out my hand,
and the words, 'Let me see it,' involuntarily passed my lips.  He
was evidently reluctant to grant the request, but while he
hesitated I snatched it from his hand.  Recollecting myself,
however, the minute after, I offered to restore it.
'Here, take it,' said I, 'if you don't want me to read it.'
'No,' replied he, 'you may read it if you like.'
I read it, and so may you.
Grassdale, Nov. 4th.
Dear Frederick, - I know you will be anxious to hear from me, and I
will tell you all I can.  Mr. Huntingdon is very ill, but not
dying, or in any immediate danger; and he is rather better at
present than he was when I came.  I found the house in sad
confusion:  Mrs. Greaves, Benson, every decent servant had left,
and those that were come to supply their places were a negligent,
disorderly set, to say no worse - I must change them again, if I
stay.  A professional nurse, a grim, hard old woman, had been hired
to attend the wretched invalid.  He suffers much, and has no
fortitude to bear him through.  The immediate injuries he sustained
from the accident, however, were not very severe, and would, as the
doctor says, have been but trifling to a man of temperate habits,
but with him it is very different.  On the night of my arrival,
when I first entered his room, he was lying in a kind of half
delirium.  He did not notice me till I spoke, and then he mistook
me for another.
'Is it you, Alice, come again?' he murmured.  'What did you leave
me for?'
'It is I, Arthur - it is Helen, your wife,' I replied.
'My wife!' said he, with a start.  'For heaven's sake, don't
mention her - I have none.  Devil take her,' he cried, a moment
after, 'and you, too!  What did you do it for?'
I said no more; but observing that he kept gazing towards the foot
of the bed, I went and sat there, placing the light so as to shine
full upon me, for I thought he might be dying, and I wanted him to
know me.  For a long time he lay silently looking upon me, first
with a vacant stare, then with a fixed gaze of strange growing
intensity.  At last he startled me by suddenly raising himself on
his elbow and demanding in a horrified whisper, with his eyes still
fixed upon me, 'Who is it?'
'It is Helen Huntingdon,' said I, quietly rising at the same time,
and removing to a less conspicuous position.
'I must be going mad,' cried he, 'or something - delirious,
perhaps; but leave me, whoever you are.  I can't bear that white
face, and those eyes.  For God's sake go, and send me somebody else
that doesn't look like that!'
I went at once, and sent the hired nurse; but next morning I
ventured to enter his chamber again, and, taking the nurse's place
by his bedside, I watched him and waited on him for several hours,
showing myself as little as possible, and only speaking when
necessary, and then not above my breath.  At first he addressed me
as the nurse, but, on my crossing the room to draw up the window-
blinds, in obedience to his directions, he said, 'No, it isn't
nurse; it's Alice.  Stay with me, do!  That old hag will be the
death of me.'
'I mean to stay with you,' said I.  And after that he would call me
Alice, or some other name almost equally repugnant to my feelings.
I forced myself to endure it for a while, fearing a contradiction
might disturb him too much; but when, having asked for a glass of
water, while I held it to his lips, he murmured, 'Thanks, dearest!'
I could not help distinctly observing, 'You would not say so if you
knew me,' intending to follow that up with another declaration of
my identity; but he merely muttered an incoherent reply, so I
dropped it again, till some time after, when, as I was bathing his
forehead and temples with vinegar and water to relieve the heat and
pain in his head, he observed, after looking earnestly upon me for
some minutes, 'I have such strange fancies - I can't get rid of
them, and they won't let me rest; and the most singular and
pertinacious of them all is your face and voice - they seem just
like hers.  I could swear at this moment that she was by my side.'
'She is,' said I.
'That seems comfortable,' continued he, without noticing my words;
'and while you do it, the other fancies fade away - but this only
strengthens. - Go on - go on, till it vanishes, too.  I can't stand
such a mania as this; it would kill me!'
'It never will vanish,' said I, distinctly, 'for it is the truth!'
