
'The truth!' he cried, starting, as if an asp had stung him.  'You
don't mean to say that you are really she?'
'I do; but you needn't shrink away from me, as if I were your
greatest enemy:  I am come to take care of you, and do what none of
them would do.'
'For God's sake, don't torment me now!' cried he in pitiable
agitation; and then he began to mutter bitter curses against me, or
the evil fortune that had brought me there; while I put down the
sponge and basin, and resumed my seat at the bed-side.
'Where are they?' said he:  'have they all left me - servants and
all?'
'There are servants within call if you want them; but you had
better lie down now and be quiet:  none of them could or would
attend you as carefully as I shall do.'
'I can't understand it at all,' said he, in bewildered perplexity.
'Was it a dream that - ' and he covered his eyes with his hands, as
if trying to unravel the mystery.
'No, Arthur, it was not a dream, that your conduct was such as to
oblige me to leave you; but I heard that you were ill and alone,
and I am come back to nurse you.  You need not fear to trust me
tell me all your wants, and I will try to satisfy them.  There is
no one else to care for you; and I shall not upbraid you now.'
'Oh! I see,' said he, with a bitter smile; 'it's an act of
Christian charity, whereby you hope to gain a higher seat in heaven
for yourself, and scoop a deeper pit in hell for me.'
'No; I came to offer you that comfort and assistance your situation
required; and if I could benefit your soul as well as your body,
and awaken some sense of contrition and - '
'Oh, yes; if you could overwhelm me with remorse and confusion of
face, now's the time.  What have you done with my son?'
'He is well, and you may see him some time, if you will compose
yourself, but not now.'
'Where is he?'
'He is safe.'
'Is he here?'
'Wherever he is, you will not see him till you have promised to
leave him entirely under my care and protection, and to let me take
him away whenever and wherever I please, if I should hereafter
judge it necessary to remove him again.  But we will talk of that
to-morrow:  you must be quiet now.'
'No, let me see him now, I promise, if it must be so.'
'No - '
'I swear it, as God is in heaven!  Now, then, let me see him.'
'But I cannot trust your oaths and promises:  I must have a written
agreement, and you must sign it in presence of a witness:  but not
to-day - to-morrow.'
'No, to-day; now,' persisted he:  and he was in such a state of
feverish excitement, and so bent upon the immediate gratification
of his wish, that I thought it better to grant it at once, as I saw
he would not rest till I did.  But I was determined my son's
interest should not be forgotten; and having clearly written out
the promise I wished Mr. Huntingdon to give upon a slip of paper, I
deliberately read it over to him, and made him sign it in the
presence of Rachel.  He begged I would not insist upon this:  it
was a useless exposure of my want of faith in his word to the
servant.  I told him I was sorry, but since he had forfeited my
confidence, he must take the consequence.  He next pleaded
inability to hold the pen.  'Then we must wait until you can hold
it,' said I.  Upon which he said he would try; but then he could
not see to write.  I placed my finger where the signature was to
be, and told him he might write his name in the dark, if he only
knew where to put it.  But he had not power to form the letters.
'In that case, you must be too ill to see the child,' said I; and
finding me inexorable, he at length managed to ratify the
agreement; and I bade Rachel send the boy.
All this may strike you as harsh, but I felt I must not lose my
present advantage, and my son's future welfare should not be
sacrificed to any mistaken tenderness for this man's feelings.
Little Arthur had not forgotten his father, but thirteen months of
absence, during which he had seldom been permitted to hear a word
about him, or hardly to whisper his name, had rendered him somewhat
shy; and when he was ushered into the darkened room where the sick
man lay, so altered from his former self, with fiercely flushed
face and wildly-gleaming eyes - he instinctively clung to me, and
stood looking on his father with a countenance expressive of far
more awe than pleasure.
'Come here, Arthur,' said the latter, extending his hand towards
him.  The child went, and timidly touched that burning hand, but
almost started in alarm, when his father suddenly clutched his arm
and drew him nearer to his side.
'Do you know me?' asked Mr. Huntingdon, intently perusing his
features.
'Yes.'
'Who am I?'
