
'Papa.'
'Are you glad to see me?'
'Yes.'
'You're not!' replied the disappointed parent, relaxing his hold,
and darting a vindictive glance at me.
Arthur, thus released, crept back to me and put his hand in mine.
His father swore I had made the child hate him, and abused and
cursed me bitterly.  The instant he began I sent our son out of the
room; and when he paused to breathe, I calmly assured him that he
was entirely mistaken; I had never once attempted to prejudice his
child against him.
'I did indeed desire him to forget you,' I said, 'and especially to
forget the lessons you taught him; and for that cause, and to
lessen the danger of discovery, I own I have generally discouraged
his inclination to talk about you; but no one can blame me for
that, I think.'
The invalid only replied by groaning aloud, and rolling his head on
a pillow in a paroxysm of impatience.
'I am in hell, already!' cried he.  'This cursed thirst is burning
my heart to ashes!  Will nobody -?'
Before he could finish the sentence I had poured out a glass of
some acidulated, cooling drink that was on the table, and brought
it to him.  He drank it greedily, but muttered, as I took away the
glass, - 'I suppose you're heaping coals of fire on my head, you
think?'
Not noticing this speech, I asked if there was anything else I
could do for him.
'Yes; I'll give you another opportunity of showing your Christian
magnanimity,' sneered he:  'set my pillow straight, and these
confounded bed-clothes.'  I did so.  'There:  now get me another
glass of that slop.'  I complied.  'This is delightful, isn't it?'
said he with a malicious grin, as I held it to his lips; 'you never
hoped for such a glorious opportunity?'
'Now, shall I stay with you?' said I, as I replaced the glass on
the table:  'or will you be more quiet if I go and send the nurse?'
'Oh, yes, you're wondrous gentle and obliging!  But you've driven
me mad with it all!' responded he, with an impatient toss.
'I'll leave you, then,' said I; and I withdrew, and did not trouble
him with my presence again that day, except for a minute or two at
a time, just to see how he was and what he wanted.
Next morning the doctor ordered him to be bled; and after that he
was more subdued and tranquil.  I passed half the day in his room
at different intervals.  My presence did not appear to agitate or
irritate him as before, and he accepted my services quietly,
without any bitter remarks:  indeed, he scarcely spoke at all,
except to make known his wants, and hardly then.  But on the
morrow, that is to say, in proportion as he recovered from the
state of exhaustion and stupefaction, his ill-nature appeared to
revive.
'Oh, this sweet revenge!' cried he, when I had been doing all I
could to make him comfortable and to remedy the carelessness of his
nurse.  'And you can enjoy it with such a quiet conscience too,
because it's all in the way of duty.'
'It is well for me that I am doing my duty,' said I, with a
bitterness I could not repress, 'for it is the only comfort I have;
and the satisfaction of my own conscience, it seems, is the only
reward I need look for!'
He looked rather surprised at the earnestness of my manner.
'What reward did you look for?' he asked.
'You will think me a liar if I tell you; but I did hope to benefit
you:  as well to better your mind as to alleviate your present
sufferings; but it appears I am to do neither; your own bad spirit
will not let me.  As far as you are concerned, I have sacrificed my
own feelings, and all the little earthly comfort that was left me,
to no purpose; and every little thing I do for you is ascribed to
self-righteous malice and refined revenge!'
'It's all very fine, I daresay,' said he, eyeing me with stupid
amazement; 'and of course I ought to be melted to tears of
penitence and admiration at the sight of so much generosity and
superhuman goodness; but you see I can't manage it.  However, pray
do me all the good you can, if you do really find any pleasure in
it; for you perceive I am almost as miserable just now as you need
wish to see me.  Since you came, I confess, I have had better
attendance than before, for these wretches neglected me shamefully,
and all my old friends seem to have fairly forsaken me.  I've had a
dreadful time of it, I assure you:  I sometimes thought I should
have died:  do you think there's any chance?'
'There's always a chance of death; and it is always well to live
with such a chance in view.'
'Yes, yes! but do you think there's any likelihood that this
illness will have a fatal termination?'
'I cannot tell; but, supposing it should, how are you prepared to
meet the event?'
'Why, the doctor told me I wasn't to think about it, for I was sure
to get better if I stuck to his regimen and prescriptions.'
