
'I hope you may, Arthur; but neither the doctor nor I can speak
with certainty in such a case; there is internal injury, and it is
difficult to know to what extent.'
'There now! you want to scare me to death.'
'No; but I don't want to lull you to false security.  If a
consciousness of the uncertainty of life can dispose you to serious
and useful thoughts, I would not deprive you of the benefit of such
reflections, whether you do eventually recover or not.  Does the
idea of death appal you very much?'
'It's just the only thing I can't bear to think of; so if you've
any - '
'But it must come some time,' interrupted I, 'and if it be years
hence, it will as certainly overtake you as if it came to-day, -
and no doubt be as unwelcome then as now, unless you - '
'Oh, hang it! don't torment me with your preachments now, unless
you want to kill me outright.  I can't stand it, I tell you.  I've
sufferings enough without that.  If you think there's danger, save
me from it; and then, in gratitude, I'll hear whatever you like to
say.'
I accordingly dropped the unwelcome topic.  And now, Frederick, I
think I may bring my letter to a close.  From these details you may
form your own judgment of the state of my patient, and of my own
position and future prospects.  Let me hear from you soon, and I
will write again to tell you how we get on; but now that my
presence is tolerated, and even required, in the sick-room, I shall
have but little time to spare between my husband and my son, - for
I must not entirely neglect the latter:  it would not do to keep
him always with Rachel, and I dare not leave him for a moment with
any of the other servants, or suffer him to be alone, lest he
should meet them.  If his father get worse, I shall ask Esther
Hargrave to take charge of him for a time, till I have reorganised
the household at least; but I greatly prefer keeping him under my
own eye.
I find myself in rather a singular position:  I am exerting my
utmost endeavours to promote the recovery and reformation of my
husband, and if I succeed, what shall I do?  My duty, of course, -
but how?  No matter; I can perform the task that is before me now,
and God will give me strength to do whatever He requires hereafter.
Good-by, dear Frederick.
HELEN HUNTINGDON.
'What do you think of it?' said Lawrence, as I silently refolded
the letter.
'It seems to me,' returned I, 'that she is casting her pearls
before swine.  May they be satisfied with trampling them under
their feet, and not turn again and rend her!  But I shall say no
more against her:  I see that she was actuated by the best and
noblest motives in what she has done; and if the act is not a wise
one, may heaven protect her from its consequences!  May I keep this
letter, Lawrence? - you see she has never once mentioned me
throughout - or made the most distant allusion to me; therefore,
there can be no impropriety or harm in it.'
'And, therefore, why should you wish to keep it?'
'Were not these characters written by her hand? and were not these
words conceived in her mind, and many of them spoken by her lips?'
'Well,' said he.  And so I kept it; otherwise, Halford, you could
never have become so thoroughly acquainted with its contents.
'And when you write,' said I, 'will you have the goodness to ask
her if I may be permitted to enlighten my mother and sister on her
real history and circumstance, just so far as is necessary to make
the neighbourhood sensible of the shameful injustice they have done
her?  I want no tender messages, but just ask her that, and tell
her it is the greatest favour she could do me; and tell her - no,
nothing more.  You see I know the address, and I might write to her
myself, but I am so virtuous as to refrain.'
'Well, I'll do this for you, Markham.'
'And as soon as you receive an answer, you'll let me know?'
'If all be well, I'll come myself and tell you immediately.'
CHAPTER XLVIII
Five or six days after this Mr. Lawrence paid us the honour of a
call; and when he and I were alone together - which I contrived as
soon as possible by bringing him out to look at my cornstacks - he
showed me another letter from his sister.  This one he was quite
willing to submit to my longing gaze; he thought, I suppose, it
would do me good.  The only answer it gave to my message was this:-
