
'Nay, nay, Huntingdon,' said he, 'you're too hard upon her; she
must have food and sleep, and a mouthful of fresh air now and then,
or she can't stand it, I tell you.  Look at her, man! she's worn to
a shadow already.'
'What are her sufferings to mine?' said the poor invalid.  'You
don't grudge me these attentions, do you, Helen?'
'No, Arthur, if I could really serve you by them.  I would give my
life to save you, if I might.'
'Would you, indeed?  No!'
'Most willingly I would.'
'Ah! that's because you think yourself more fit to die!'
There was a painful pause.  He was evidently plunged in gloomy
reflections; but while I pondered for something to say that might
benefit without alarming him, Hattersley, whose mind had been
pursuing almost the same course, broke silence with, 'I say,
Huntingdon, I would send for a parson of some sort:  if you didn't
like the vicar, you know, you could have his curate, or somebody
else.'
'No; none of them can benefit me if she can't,' was the answer.
And the tears gushed from his eyes as he earnestly exclaimed, 'Oh,
Helen, if I had listened to you, it never would have come to this!
and if I had heard you long ago - oh, God! how different it would
have been!'
'Hear me now, then, Arthur,' said I, gently pressing his hand.
'It's too late now,' said he despondingly.  And after that another
paroxysm of pain came on; and then his mind began to wander, and we
feared his death was approaching:  but an opiate was administered:
his sufferings began to abate, he gradually became more composed,
and at length sank into a kind of slumber.  He has been quieter
since; and now Hattersley has left him, expressing a hope that he
shall find him better when he calls to-morrow.
'Perhaps I may recover,' he replied; 'who knows?  This may have
been the crisis.  What do you think, Helen?'  Unwilling to depress
him, I gave the most cheering answer I could, but still recommended
him to prepare for the possibility of what I inly feared was but
too certain.  But he was determined to hope.  Shortly after he
relapsed into a kind of doze, but now he groans again.
There is a change.  Suddenly he called me to his side, with such a
strange, excited manner, that I feared he was delirious, but he was
not.  'That was the crisis, Helen!' said he, delightedly.  'I had
an infernal pain here - it is quite gone now.  I never was so easy
since the fall - quite gone, by heaven!' and he clasped and kissed
my hand in the very fulness of his heart; but finding I did not
participate his joy, he quickly flung it from him, and bitterly
cursed my coldness and insensibility.  How could I reply?  Kneeling
beside him, I took his hand and fondly pressed it to my lips - for
the first time since our separation - and told him, as well as
tears would let me speak, that it was not that that kept me silent:
it was the fear that this sudden cessation of pain was not so
favourable a symptom as he supposed.  I immediately sent for the
doctor:  we are now anxiously awaiting him.  I will tell you what
he says.  There is still the same freedom from pain, the same
deadness to all sensation where the suffering was most acute.
My worst fears are realised:  mortification has commenced.  The
doctor has told him there is no hope.  No words can describe his
anguish.  I can write no more.
* * * * *
The next was still more distressing in the tenor of its contents.
The sufferer was fast approaching dissolution - dragged almost to
the verge of that awful chasm he trembled to contemplate, from
which no agony of prayers or tears could save him.  Nothing could
comfort him now; Hattersley's rough attempts at consolation were
utterly in vain.  The world was nothing to him:  life and all its
interests, its petty cares and transient pleasures, were a cruel
mockery.  To talk of the past was to torture him with vain remorse;
to refer to the future was to increase his anguish; and yet to be
silent was to leave him a prey to his own regrets and
apprehensions.  Often he dwelt with shuddering minuteness on the
fate of his perishing clay - the slow, piecemeal dissolution
already invading his frame:  the shroud, the coffin, the dark,
lonely grave, and all the horrors of corruption.
'If I try,' said his afflicted wife, 'to divert him from these
things - to raise his thoughts to higher themes, it is no better:-
"Worse and worse!" he groans.  "If there be really life beyond the
tomb, and judgment after death, how can I face it?" - I cannot do
him any good; he will neither be enlightened, nor roused, nor
comforted by anything I say; and yet he clings to me with
unrelenting pertinacity - with a kind of childish desperation, as
if I could save him from the fate he dreads.  He keeps me night and
day beside him.  He is holding my left hand now, while I write; he
has held it thus for hours:  sometimes quietly, with his pale face
upturned to mine:  sometimes clutching my arm with violence - the
big drops starting from his forehead at the thoughts of what he
sees, or thinks he sees, before him.  If I withdraw my hand for a
moment it distresses him.
'"Stay with me, Helen," he says; "let me hold you so:  it seems as
if harm could not reach me while you are here.  But death will come
- it is coming now - fast, fast! - and - oh, if I could believe
there was nothing after!"
'"Don't try to believe it, Arthur; there is joy and glory after, if
you will but try to reach it!"
'"What, for me?" he said, with something like a laugh.  "Are we not
to be judged according to the deeds done in the body?  Where's the
use of a probationary existence, if a man may spend it as he
pleases, just contrary to God's decrees, and then go to heaven with
the best - if the vilest sinner may win the reward of the holiest
saint, by merely saying, "I repent!"'
'"But if you sincerely repent - "
'"I can't repent; I only fear."
'"You only regret the past for its consequences to yourself?"
'"Just so - except that I'm sorry to have wronged you, Nell,
because you're so good to me."
'"Think of the goodness of God, and you cannot but be grieved to
have offended Him."
'"What is God? - I cannot see Him or hear Him. - God is only an
idea."
