
'"God is Infinite Wisdom, and Power, and Goodness - and LOVE; but
if this idea is too vast for your human faculties - if your mind
loses itself in its overwhelming infinitude, fix it on Him who
condescended to take our nature upon Him, who was raised to heaven
even in His glorified human body, in whom the fulness of the
Godhead shines."
'But he only shook his head and sighed.  Then, in another paroxysm
of shuddering horror, he tightened his grasp on my hand and arm,
and, groaning and lamenting, still clung to me with that wild,
desperate earnestness so harrowing to my soul, because I know I
cannot help him.  I did my best to soothe and comfort him.
'"Death is so terrible," he cried, "I cannot bear it!  You don't
know, Helen - you can't imagine what it is, because you haven't it
before you! and when I'm buried, you'll return to your old ways and
be as happy as ever, and all the world will go on just as busy and
merry as if I had never been; while I - "  He burst into tears.
'"You needn't let that distress you," I said; "we shall all follow
you soon enough."
'"I wish to God I could take you with me now!" he exclaimed:  "you
should plead for me."
'"No man can deliver his brother, nor make agreement unto God for
him," I replied:  "it cost more to redeem their souls - it cost the
blood of an incarnate God, perfect and sinless in Himself, to
redeem us from the bondage of the evil one:- let Him plead for
you."
'But I seem to speak in vain.  He does not now, as formerly, laugh
these blessed truths to scorn:  but still he cannot trust, or will
not comprehend them.  He cannot linger long.  He suffers
dreadfully, and so do those that wait upon him.  But I will not
harass you with further details:  I have said enough, I think, to
convince you that I did well to go to him.'
* * * * *
Poor, poor Helen! dreadful indeed her trials must have been!  And I
could do nothing to lessen them - nay, it almost seemed as if I had
brought them upon her myself by my own secret desires; and whether
I looked at her husband's sufferings or her own, it seemed almost
like a judgment upon myself for having cherished such a wish.
The next day but one there came another letter.  That too was put
into my hands without a remark, and these are its contents:-
Dec. 5th.
He is gone at last.  I sat beside him all night, with my hand fast
looked in his, watching the changes of his features and listening
to his failing breath.  He had been silent a long time, and I
thought he would never speak again, when he murmured, faintly but
distinctly, - 'Pray for me, Helen!'
'I do pray for you, every hour and every minute, Arthur; but you
must pray for yourself.'
His lips moved, but emitted no sound; - then his looks became
unsettled; and, from the incoherent, half-uttered words that
escaped him from time to time, supposing him to be now unconscious,
I gently disengaged my hand from his, intending to steal away for a
breath of air, for I was almost ready to faint; but a convulsive
movement of the fingers, and a faintly whispered 'Don't leave me!'
immediately recalled me:  I took his hand again, and held it till
he was no more - and then I fainted.  It was not grief; it was
exhaustion, that, till then, I had been enabled successfully to
combat.  Oh, Frederick! none can imagine the miseries, bodily and
mental, of that death-bed!  How could I endure to think that that
poor trembling soul was hurried away to everlasting torment? it
would drive me mad.  But, thank God, I have hope - not only from a
vague dependence on the possibility that penitence and pardon might
have reached him at the last, but from the blessed confidence that,
through whatever purging fires the erring spirit may be doomed to
pass - whatever fate awaits it - still it is not lost, and God, who
hateth nothing that He hath made, will bless it in the end!
His body will be consigned on Thursday to that dark grave he so
much dreaded; but the coffin must be closed as soon as possible.
If you will attend the funeral, come quickly, for I need help.
HELEN HUNTINGDON.
CHAPTER L
On reading this I had no reason to disguise my joy and hope from
Frederick Lawrence, for I had none to be ashamed of.  I felt no joy
but that his sister was at length released from her afflictive,
overwhelming toil - no hope but that she would in time recover from
the effects of it, and be suffered to rest in peace and quietness,
at least, for the remainder of her life.  I experienced a painful
commiseration for her unhappy husband (though fully aware that he
had brought every particle of his sufferings upon himself, and but
too well deserved them all), and a profound sympathy for her own
afflictions, and deep anxiety for the consequences of those
harassing cares, those dreadful vigils, that incessant and
deleterious confinement beside a living corpse - for I was
persuaded she had not hinted half the sufferings she had had to
endure.
'You will go to her, Lawrence?' said I, as I put the letter into
his hand.
'Yes, immediately.'
