
'That's right!  I'll leave you, then, to prepare for your
departure.'
'I've done that already, while you were reading the letter, and
before you came; and the carriage is now coming round to the door.'
Inly approving his promptitude, I bade him good-morning, and
withdrew.  He gave me a searching glance as we pressed each other's
hands at parting; but whatever he sought in my countenance, he saw
there nothing but the most becoming gravity - it might be mingled
with a little sternness in momentary resentment at what I suspected
to be passing in his mind.
Had I forgotten my own prospects, my ardent love, my pertinacious
hopes?  It seemed like sacrilege to revert to them now, but I had
not forgotten them.  It was, however, with a gloomy sense of the
darkness of those prospects, the fallacy of those hopes, and the
vanity of that affection, that I reflected on those things as I
remounted my horse and slowly journeyed homewards.  Mrs. Huntingdon
was free now; it was no longer a crime to think of her - but did
she ever think of me?  Not now - of course it was not to be
expected - but would she when this shock was over?  In all the
course of her correspondence with her brother (our mutual friend,
as she herself had called him) she had never mentioned me but once
- and that was from necessity.  This alone afforded strong
presumption that I was already forgotten; yet this was not the
worst:  it might have been her sense of duty that had kept her
silent:  she might be only trying to forget; but in addition to
this, I had a gloomy conviction that the awful realities she had
seen and felt, her reconciliation with the man she had once loved,
his dreadful sufferings and death, must eventually efface from her
mind all traces of her passing love for me.  She might recover from
these horrors so far as to be restored to her former health, her
tranquillity, her cheerfulness even - but never to those feelings
which would appear to her, henceforth, as a fleeting fancy, a vain,
illusive dream; especially as there was no one to remind her of my
existence - no means of assuring her of my fervent constancy, now
that we were so far apart, and delicacy forbade me to see her or to
write to her, for months to come at least.  And how could I engage
her brother in my behalf? how could I break that icy crust of shy
reserve?  Perhaps he would disapprove of my attachment now as
highly as before; perhaps he would think me too poor - too lowly
born, to match with his sister.  Yes, there was another barrier:
doubtless there was a wide distinction between the rank and
circumstances of Mrs. Huntingdon, the lady of Grassdale Manor, and
those of Mrs. Graham, the artist, the tenant of Wildfell Hall.  And
it might be deemed presumption in me to offer my hand to the
former, by the world, by her friends, if not by herself; a penalty
I might brave, if I were certain she loved me; but otherwise, how
could I?  And, finally, her deceased husband, with his usual
selfishness, might have so constructed his will as to place
restrictions upon her marrying again.  So that you see I had
reasons enough for despair if I chose to indulge it.
Nevertheless, it was with no small degree of impatience that I
looked forward to Mr. Lawrence's return from Grassdale:  impatience
that increased in proportion as his absence was prolonged.  He
stayed away some ten or twelve days.  All very right that he should
remain to comfort and help his sister, but he might have written to
tell me how she was, or at least to tell me when to expect his
return; for he might have known I was suffering tortures of anxiety
for her, and uncertainty for my own future prospects.  And when he
did return, all he told me about her was, that she had been greatly
exhausted and worn by her unremitting exertions in behalf of that
man who had been the scourge of her life, and had dragged her with
him nearly to the portals of the grave, and was still much shaken
and depressed by his melancholy end and the circumstances attendant
upon it; but no word in reference to me; no intimation that my name
had ever passed her lips, or even been spoken in her presence.  To
be sure, I asked no questions on the subject; I could not bring my
mind to do so, believing, as I did, that Lawrence was indeed averse
to the idea of my union with his sister.
I saw that he expected to be further questioned concerning his
visit, and I saw too, with the keen perception of awakened
jealousy, or alarmed self-esteem, or by whatever name I ought to
call it, that he rather shrank from that impending scrutiny, and
was no less pleased than surprised to find it did not come.  Of
course, I was burning with anger, but pride obliged me to suppress
my feelings, and preserve a smooth face, or at least a stoic
calmness, throughout the interview.  It was well it did, for,
reviewing the matter in my sober judgment, I must say it would have
been highly absurd and improper to have quarrelled with him on such
an occasion.  I must confess, too, that I wronged him in my heart:
the truth was, he liked me very well, but he was fully aware that a
union between Mrs. Huntingdon and me would be what the world calls
a mesalliance; and it was not in his nature to set the world at
defiance; especially in such a case as this, for its dread laugh,
or ill opinion, would be far more terrible to him directed against
his sister than himself.  Had he believed that a union was
necessary to the happiness of both, or of either, or had he known
how fervently I loved her, he would have acted differently; but
seeing me so calm and cool, he would not for the world disturb my
philosophy; and though refraining entirely from any active
opposition to the match, he would yet do nothing to bring it about,
and would much rather take the part of prudence, in aiding us to
overcome our mutual predilections, than that of feeling, to
encourage them.  'And he was in the right of it,' you will say.
Perhaps he was; at any rate, I had no business to feel so bitterly
against him as I did; but I could not then regard the matter in
such a moderate light; and, after a brief conversation upon
indifferent topics, I went away, suffering all the pangs of wounded
pride and injured friendship, in addition to those resulting from
the fear that I was indeed forgotten, and the knowledge that she I
loved was alone and afflicted, suffering from injured health and
dejected spirits, and I was forbidden to console or assist her:
forbidden even to assure her of my sympathy, for the transmission
of any such message through Mr. Lawrence was now completely out of
the question.
But what should I do?  I would wait, and see if she would notice
me, which of course she would not, unless by some kind message
intrusted to her brother, that, in all probability, he would not
deliver, and then, dreadful thought! she would think me cooled and
changed for not returning it, or, perhaps, he had already given her
to understand that I had ceased to think of her.  I would wait,
however, till the six months after our parting were fairly passed
(which would be about the close of February), and then I would send
her a letter, modestly reminding her of her former permission to
write to her at the close of that period, and hoping I might avail
myself of it - at least to express my heartfelt sorrow for her late
afflictions, my just appreciation of her generous conduct, and my
hope that her health was now completely re-established, and that
she would, some time, be permitted to enjoy those blessings of a
peaceful, happy life, which had been denied her so long, but which
none could more truly be said to merit than herself - adding a few
words of kind remembrance to my little friend Arthur, with a hope
that he had not forgotten me, and perhaps a few more in reference
to bygone times, to the delightful hours I had passed in her
society, and my unfading recollection of them, which was the salt
and solace of my life, and a hope that her recent troubles had not
entirely banished me from her mind.  If she did not answer this, of
course I should write no more:  if she did (as surely she would, in
some fashion), my future proceedings should be regulated by her
reply.
Ten weeks was long to wait in such a miserable state of
uncertainty; but courage! it must be endured! and meantime I would
continue to see Lawrence now and then, though not so often as
before, and I would still pursue my habitual inquiries after his
sister, if he had lately heard from her, and how she was, but
nothing more.
I did so, and the answers I received were always provokingly
limited to the letter of the inquiry:  she was much as usual:  she
made no complaints, but the tone of her last letter evinced great
depression of mind:  she said she was better:  and, finally, she
said she was well, and very busy with her son's education, and with
the management of her late husband's property, and the regulation
of his affairs.  The rascal had never told me how that property was
disposed, or whether Mr. Huntingdon had died intestate or not; and
I would sooner die than ask him, lest he should misconstrue into
covetousness my desire to know.  He never offered to show me his
sister's letters now, and I never hinted a wish to see them.
February, however, was approaching; December was past; January, at
length, was almost over - a few more weeks, and then, certain
despair or renewal of hope would put an end to this long agony of
suspense.
But alas! it was just about that time she was called to sustain
another blow in the death of her uncle - a worthless old fellow
enough in himself, I daresay, but he had always shown more kindness
and affection to her than to any other creature, and she had always
been accustomed to regard him as a parent.  She was with him when
he died, and had assisted her aunt to nurse him during the last
stage of his illness.  Her brother went to Staningley to attend the
funeral, and told me, upon his return, that she was still there,
endeavouring to cheer her aunt with her presence, and likely to
remain some time.  This was bad news for me, for while she
continued there I could not write to her, as I did not know the
address, and would not ask it of him.  But week followed week, and
every time I inquired about her she was still at Staningley.
'Where is Staningley?' I asked at last.
'In -shire,' was the brief reply; and there was something so cold
and dry in the manner of it, that I was effectually deterred from
requesting a more definite account.
'When will she return to Grassdale?' was my next question.
'I don't know.'
'Confound it!' I muttered.
'Why, Markham?' asked my companion, with an air of innocent
surprise.  But I did not deign to answer him, save by a look of
silent, sullen contempt, at which he turned away, and contemplated
the carpet with a slight smile, half pensive, half amused; but
quickly looking up, he began to talk of other subjects, trying to
draw me into a cheerful and friendly conversation, but I was too
much irritated to discourse with him, and soon took leave.
You see Lawrence and I somehow could not manage to get on very well
together.  The fact is, I believe, we were both of us a little too
touchy.  It is a troublesome thing, Halford, this susceptibility to
affronts where none are intended.  I am no martyr to it now, as you
can bear me witness:  I have learned to be merry and wise, to be
more easy with myself and more indulgent to my neighbours, and I
can afford to laugh at both Lawrence and you.
Partly from accident, partly from wilful negligence on my part (for
I was really beginning to dislike him), several weeks elapsed
before I saw my friend again.  When we did meet, it was he that
sought me out.  One bright morning, early in June, he came into the
field, where I was just commencing my hay harvest.
'It is long since I saw you, Markham,' said he, after the first few
words had passed between us.  'Do you never mean to come to
Woodford again?'
'I called once, and you were out.'
'I was sorry, but that was long since; I hoped you would call
again, and now I have called, and you were out, which you generally
are, or I would do myself the pleasure of calling more frequently;
but being determined to see you this time, I have left my pony in
the lane, and come over hedge and ditch to join you; for I am about
to leave Woodford for a while, and may not have the pleasure of
seeing you again for a month or two.'
'Where are you going?'
'To Grassdale first,' said he, with a half-smile he would willingly
have suppressed if he could.
'To Grassdale!  Is she there, then?'
'Yes, but in a day or two she will leave it to accompany Mrs.
Maxwell to F- for the benefit of the sea air, and I shall go with
them.'  (F- was at that time a quiet but respectable watering-
place:  it is considerably more frequented now.)
