
Lawrence seemed to expect me to take advantage of this circumstance
to entrust him with some sort of a message to his sister; and I
believe he would have undertaken to deliver it without any material
objections, if I had had the sense to ask him, though of course he
would not offer to do so, if I was content to let it alone.  But I
could not bring myself to make the request, and it was not till
after he was gone, that I saw how fair an opportunity I had lost;
and then, indeed, I deeply regretted my stupidity and my foolish
pride, but it was now too late to remedy the evil.
He did not return till towards the latter end of August.  He wrote
to me twice or thrice from F-, but his letters were most
provokingly unsatisfactory, dealing in generalities or in trifles
that I cared nothing about, or replete with fancies and reflections
equally unwelcome to me at the time, saying next to nothing about
his sister, and little more about himself.  I would wait, however,
till he came back; perhaps I could get something more out of him
then.  At all events, I would not write to her now, while she was
with him and her aunt, who doubtless would be still more hostile to
my presumptuous aspirations than himself.  When she was returned to
the silence and solitude of her own home, it would be my fittest
opportunity.
When Lawrence came, however, he was as reserved as ever on the
subject of my keen anxiety.  He told me that his sister had derived
considerable benefit from her stay at F- that her son was quite
well, and - alas! that both of them were gone, with Mrs. Maxwell,
back to Staningley, and there they stayed at least three months.
But instead of boring you with my chagrin, my expectations and
disappointments, my fluctuations of dull despondency and flickering
hope, my varying resolutions, now to drop it, and now to persevere
- now to make a bold push, and now to let things pass and patiently
abide my time, - I will employ myself in settling the business of
one or two of the characters introduced in the course of this
narrative, whom I may not have occasion to mention again.
Some time before Mr. Huntingdon's death Lady Lowborough eloped with
another gallant to the Continent, where, having lived a while in
reckless gaiety and dissipation, they quarrelled and parted.  She
went dashing on for a season, but years came and money went:  she
sunk, at length, in difficulty and debt, disgrace and misery; and
died at last, as I have heard, in penury, neglect, and utter
wretchedness.  But this might be only a report:  she may be living
yet for anything I or any of her relatives or former acquaintances
can tell; for they have all lost sight of her long years ago, and
would as thoroughly forget her if they could.  Her husband,
however, upon this second misdemeanour, immediately sought and
obtained a divorce, and, not long after, married again.  It was
well he did, for Lord Lowborough, morose and moody as he seemed,
was not the man for a bachelor's life.  No public interests, no
ambitious projects, or active pursuits, - or ties of friendship
even (if he had had any friends), could compensate to him for the
absence of domestic comforts and endearments.  He had a son and a
nominal daughter, it is true, but they too painfully reminded him
of their mother, and the unfortunate little Annabella was a source
of perpetual bitterness to his soul.  He had obliged himself to
treat her with paternal kindness:  he had forced himself not to
hate her, and even, perhaps, to feel some degree of kindly regard
for her, at last, in return for her artless and unsuspecting
attachment to himself; but the bitterness of his self-condemnation
for his inward feelings towards that innocent being, his constant
struggles to subdue the evil promptings of his nature (for it was
not a generous one), though partly guessed at by those who knew
him, could be known to God and his own heart alone; - so also was
the hardness of his conflicts with the temptation to return to the
vice of his youth, and seek oblivion for past calamities, and
deadness to the present misery of a blighted heart a joyless,
friendless life, and a morbidly disconsolate mind, by yielding
again to that insidious foe to health, and sense, and virtue, which
had so deplorably enslaved and degraded him before.
The second object of his choice was widely different from the
first.  Some wondered at his taste; some even ridiculed it - but in
this their folly was more apparent than his.  The lady was about
his own age - i.e., between thirty and forty - remarkable neither
for beauty, nor wealth, nor brilliant accomplishments; nor any
other thing that I ever heard of, except genuine good sense,
unswerving integrity, active piety, warm-hearted benevolence, and a
fund of cheerful spirits.  These qualities, however, as you way
readily imagine, combined to render her an excellent mother to the
children, and an invaluable wife to his lordship.  He, with his
usual self-depreciation, thought her a world too good for him, and
while he wondered at the kindness of Providence in conferring such
a gift upon him, and even at her taste in preferring him to other
men, he did his best to reciprocate the good she did him, and so
far succeeded that she was, and I believe still is, one of the
happiest and fondest wives in England; and all who question the
good taste of either partner may be thankful if their respective
selections afford them half the genuine satisfaction in the end, or
repay their preference with affection half as lasting and sincere.
If you are at all interested in the fate of that low scoundrel,
Grimsby, I can only tell you that he went from bad to worse,
sinking from bathos to bathos of vice and villainy, consorting only
with the worst members of his club and the lowest dregs of society
- happily for the rest of the world - and at last met his end in a
drunken brawl, from the hands, it is said, of some brother
scoundrel he had cheated at play.
As for Mr. Hattersley, he had never wholly forgotten his resolution
to 'come out from among them,' and behave like a man and a
Christian, and the last illness and death of his once jolly friend
Huntingdon so deeply and seriously impressed him with the evil of
their former practices, that he never needed another lesson of the
kind.  Avoiding the temptations of the town, he continued to pass
his life in the country, immersed in the usual pursuits of a
hearty, active, country gentleman; his occupations being those of
farming, and breeding horses and cattle, diversified with a little
hunting and shooting, and enlivened by the occasional companionship
of his friends (better friends than those of his youth), and the
society of his happy little wife (now cheerful and confiding as
heart could wish), and his fine family of stalwart sons and
blooming daughters.  His father, the banker, having died some years
ago and left him all his riches, he has now full scope for the
exercise of his prevailing tastes, and I need not tell you that
Ralph Hattersley, Esq., is celebrated throughout the country for
his noble breed of horses.
CHAPTER LI
We will now turn to a certain still, cold, cloudy afternoon about
the commencement of December, when the first fall of snow lay
thinly scattered over the blighted fields and frozen roads, or
stored more thickly in the hollows of the deep cart-ruts and
footsteps of men and horses impressed in the now petrified mire of
last month's drenching rains.  I remember it well, for I was
walking home from the vicarage with no less remarkable a personage
than Miss Eliza Millward by my side.  I had been to call upon her
father, - a sacrifice to civility undertaken entirely to please my
mother, not myself, for I hated to go near the house; not merely on
account of my antipathy to the once so bewitching Eliza, but
because I had not half forgiven the old gentleman himself for his
ill opinion of Mrs. Huntingdon; for though now constrained to
acknowledge himself mistaken in his former judgment, he still
maintained that she had done wrong to leave her husband; it was a
violation of her sacred duties as a wife, and a tempting of
Providence by laying herself open to temptation; and nothing short
of bodily ill-usage (and that of no trifling nature) could excuse
such a step - nor even that, for in such a case she ought to appeal
to the laws for protection.  But it was not of him I intended to
speak; it was of his daughter Eliza.  Just as I was taking leave of
the vicar, she entered the room, ready equipped for a walk.
'I was just coming to see, your sister, Mr. Markham,' said she;
'and so, if you have no objection, I'll accompany you home.  I like
company when I'm walking out - don't you?'
'Yes, when it's agreeable.'
'That of course,' rejoined the young lady, smiling archly.
So we proceeded together.
'Shall I find Rose at home, do you think?' said she, as we closed
the garden gate, and set our faces towards Linden-Car.
'I believe so.'
'I trust I shall, for I've a little bit of news for her - if you
haven't forestalled me.'
'I?'
'Yes:  do you know what Mr. Lawrence is gone for?'  She looked up
anxiously for my reply.
'Is he gone?' said I; and her face brightened.
'Ah! then he hasn't told you about his sister?'
'What of her?' I demanded in terror, lest some evil should have
befallen her.
