
'Oh, Mr. Markham, how you blush!' cried she, with a tormenting
laugh.  'Ha, ha, you have not forgotten her yet.  But you had
better be quick about it, I can tell you, for - alas, alas! - she's
going to be married next Thursday!'
'No, Miss Eliza, that's false.'
'Do you charge me with a falsehood, sir?'
'You are misinformed.'
'Am I?  Do you know better, then?'
'I think I do.'
'What makes you look so pale then?' said she, smiling with delight
at my emotion.  'Is it anger at poor me for telling such a fib?
Well, I only "tell the tale as 'twas told to me:" I don't vouch for
the truth of it; but at the same time, I don't see what reason
Sarah should have for deceiving me, or her informant for deceiving
her; and that was what she told me the footman told her:- that Mrs.
Huntingdon was going to be married on Thursday, and Mr. Lawrence
was gone to the wedding.  She did tell me the name of the
gentleman, but I've forgotten that.  Perhaps you can assist me to
remember it.  Is there not some one that lives near - or frequently
visits the neighbourhood, that has long been attached to her? - a
Mr. - oh, dear! Mr. - '
'Hargrave?' suggested I, with a bitter smile.
'You're right,' cried she; 'that was the very name.'
'Impossible, Miss Eliza!' I exclaimed, in a tone that made her
start.
'Well, you know, that's what they told me,' said she, composedly
staring me in the face.  And then she broke out into a long shrill
laugh that put me to my wit's end with fury.
'Really you must excuse me,' cried she.  'I know it's very rude,
but ha, ha, ha! - did you think to marry her yourself?  Dear, dear,
what a pity! - ha, ha, ha!  Gracious, Mr. Markham, are you going to
faint?  Oh, mercy! shall I call this man?  Here, Jacob - '  But
checking the word on her lips, I seized her arm and gave it, I
think, a pretty severe squeeze, for she shrank into herself with a
faint cry of pain or terror; but the spirit within her was not
subdued:  instantly rallying, she continued, with well-feigned
concern, 'What can I do for you?  Will you have some water - some
brandy?  I daresay they have some in the public-house down there,
if you'll let me run.'
'Have done with this nonsense!' cried I, sternly.  She looked
confounded - almost frightened again, for a moment.  'You know I
hate such jests,' I continued.
'Jests indeed!  I wasn't jesting!'
'You were laughing, at all events; and I don't like to be laughed
at,' returned I, making violent efforts to speak with proper
dignity and composure, and to say nothing but what was coherent and
sensible.  'And since you are in such a merry mood, Miss Eliza, you
must be good enough company for yourself; and therefore I shall
leave you to finish your walk alone - for, now I think of it, I
have business elsewhere; so good-evening.'
With that I left her (smothering her malicious laughter) and turned
aside into the fields, springing up the bank, and pushing through
the nearest gap in the hedge.  Determined at once to prove the
truth - or rather the falsehood - of her story, I hastened to
Woodford as fast as my legs could carry me; first veering round by
a circuitous course, but the moment I was out of sight of my fair
tormentor cutting away across the country, just as a bird might
fly, over pasture-land, and fallow, and stubble, and lane, clearing
hedges and ditches and hurdles, till I came to the young squire's
gates.  Never till now had I known the full fervour of my love -
the full strength of my hopes, not wholly crushed even in my hours
of deepest despondency, always tenaciously clinging to the thought
that one day she might be mine, or, if not that, at least that
something of my memory, some slight remembrance of our friendship
and our love, would be for ever cherished in her heart.  I marched
up to the door, determined, if I saw the master, to question him
boldly concerning his sister, to wait and hesitate no longer, but
cast false delicacy and stupid pride behind my back, and know my
fate at once.
'Is Mr. Lawrence at home?' I eagerly asked of the servant that
opened the door.
'No, sir, master went yesterday,' replied he, looking very alert.
'Went where?'
'To Grassdale, sir - wasn't you aware, sir?  He's very close, is
master,' said the fellow, with a foolish, simpering grin.  'I
suppose, sir - '
But I turned and left him, without waiting to hear what he
supposed.  I was not going to stand there to expose my tortured
feelings to the insolent laughter and impertinent curiosity of a
fellow like that.
But what was to be done now?  Could it be possible that she had
left me for that man?  I could not believe it.  Me she might
forsake, but not to give herself to him!  Well, I would know the
truth; to no concerns of daily life could I attend while this
tempest of doubt and dread, of jealousy and rage, distracted me.  I
would take the morning coach from L- (the evening one would be
already gone), and fly to Grassdale - I must be there before the
marriage.  And why?  Because a thought struck me that perhaps I
might prevent it - that if I did not, she and I might both lament
it to the latest moment of our lives.  It struck me that someone
might have belied me to her:  perhaps her brother; yes, no doubt
her brother had persuaded her that I was false and faithless, and
taking advantage of her natural indignation, and perhaps her
desponding carelessness about her future life, had urged her,
artfully, cruelly, on to this other marriage, in order to secure
her from me.  If this was the case, and if she should only discover
her mistake when too late to repair it - to what a life of misery
and vain regret might she be doomed as well as me; and what remorse
for me to think my foolish scruples had induced it all!  Oh, I must
see her - she must know my truth even if I told it at the church
door!  I might pass for a madman or an impertinent fool - even she
might be offended at such an interruption, or at least might tell
me it was now too late.  But if I could save her, if she might be
mine! - it was too rapturous a thought!
Winged by this hope, and goaded by these fears, I hurried homewards
to prepare for my departure on the morrow.  I told my mother that
urgent business which admitted no delay, but which I could not then
explain, called me away.
My deep anxiety and serious preoccupation could not be concealed
from her maternal eyes; and I had much ado to calm her
apprehensions of some disastrous mystery.
That night there came a heavy fall of snow, which so retarded the
progress of the coaches on the following day that I was almost
driven to distraction.  I travelled all night, of course, for this
was Wednesday:  to-morrow morning, doubtless, the marriage would
take place.  But the night was long and dark:  the snow heavily
clogged the wheels and balled the horses' feet; the animals were
consumedly lazy; the coachman most execrably cautious; the
passengers confoundedly apathetic in their supine indifference to
the rate of our progression.  Instead of assisting me to bully the
several coachmen and urge them forward, they merely stared and
grinned at my impatience:  one fellow even ventured to rally me
upon it - but I silenced him with a look that quelled him for the
rest of the journey; and when, at the last stage, I would have
taken the reins into my own hand, they all with one accord opposed
it.
