
It was broad daylight when we entered M- and drew up at the 'Rose
and Crown.'  I alighted and called aloud for a post-chaise to
Grassdale.  There was none to be had:  the only one in the town was
under repair.  'A gig, then - a fly - car - anything - only be
quick!'  There was a gig, but not a horse to spare.  I sent into
the town to seek one:  but they were such an intolerable time about
it that I could wait no longer - I thought my own feet could carry
me sooner; and bidding them send the conveyance after me, if it
were ready within an hour, I set off as fast as I could walk.  The
distance was little more than six miles, but the road was strange,
and I had to keep stopping to inquire my way; hallooing to carters
and clodhoppers, and frequently invading the cottages, for there
were few abroad that winter's morning; sometimes knocking up the
lazy people from their beds, for where so little work was to be
done, perhaps so little food and fire to be had, they cared not to
curtail their slumbers.  I had no time to think of them, however;
aching with weariness and desperation, I hurried on.  The gig did
not overtake me:  and it was well I had not waited for it;
vexatious rather, that I had been fool enough to wait so long.
At length, however, I entered the neighbourhood of Grassdale.  I
approached the little rural church - but lo! there stood a train of
carriages before it; it needed not the white favours bedecking the
servants and horses, nor the merry voices of the village idlers
assembled to witness the show, to apprise me that there was a
wedding within.  I ran in among them, demanding, with breathless
eagerness, had the ceremony long commenced?  They only gaped and
stared.  In my desperation, I pushed past them, and was about to
enter the churchyard gate, when a group of ragged urchins, that had
been hanging like bees to the window, suddenly dropped off and made
a rush for the porch, vociferating in the uncouth dialect of their
country something which signified, 'It's over - they're coming
out!'
If Eliza Millward had seen me then she might indeed have been
delighted.  I grasped the gate-post for support, and stood intently
gazing towards the door to take my last look on my soul's delight,
my first on that detested mortal who had torn her from my heart,
and doomed her, I was certain, to a life of misery and hollow, vain
repining - for what happiness could she enjoy with him?  I did not
wish to shock her with my presence now, but I had not power to move
away.  Forth came the bride and bridegroom.  Him I saw not; I had
eyes for none but her.  A long veil shrouded half her graceful
form, but did not hide it; I could see that while she carried her
head erect, her eyes were bent upon the ground, and her face and
neck were suffused with a crimson blush; but every feature was
radiant with smiles, and gleaming through the misty whiteness of
her veil were clusters of golden ringlets!  Oh, heavens! it was not
my Helen!  The first glimpse made me start - but my eyes were
darkened with exhaustion and despair.  Dare I trust them?  'Yes -
it is not she!  It was a younger, slighter, rosier beauty - lovely
indeed, but with far less dignity and depth of soul - without that
indefinable grace, that keenly spiritual yet gentle charm, that
ineffable power to attract and subjugate the heart - my heart at
least.  I looked at the bridegroom - it was Frederick Lawrence!  I
wiped away the cold drops that were trickling down my forehead, and
stepped back as he approached; but, his eyes fell upon me, and he
knew me, altered as my appearance must have been.
'Is that you, Markham?' said he, startled and confounded at the
apparition - perhaps, too, at the wildness of my looks.
'Yes, Lawrence; is that you?' I mustered the presence of mind to
reply.
He smiled and coloured, as if half-proud and half-ashamed of his
identity; and if he had reason to be proud of the sweet lady on his
arm, he had no less cause to be ashamed of having concealed his
good fortune so long.
'Allow me to introduce you to my bride,' said he, endeavouring to
hide his embarrassment by an assumption of careless gaiety.
'Esther, this is Mr. Markham; my friend Markham, Mrs. Lawrence,
late Miss Hargrave.'
I bowed to the bride, and vehemently wrung the bridegroom's hand.
'Why did you not tell me of this?' I said, reproachfully,
pretending a resentment I did not feel (for in truth I was almost
wild with joy to find myself so happily mistaken, and overflowing
with affection to him for this and for the base injustice I felt
that I had done him in my mind - he might have wronged me, but not
to that extent; and as I had hated him like a demon for the last
forty hours, the reaction from such a feeling was so great that I
could pardon all offences for the moment - and love him in spite of
them too).
'I did tell you,' said he, with an air of guilty confusion; 'you
received my letter?'
'What letter?'
'The one announcing my intended marriage.'
'I never received the most distant hint of such an intention.'
'It must have crossed you on your way then - it should have reached
you yesterday morning - it was rather late, I acknowledge.  But
what brought you here, then, if you received no information?'
It was now my turn to be confounded; but the young lady, who had
been busily patting the snow with her foot during our short sotto-
voce colloquy, very opportunely came to my assistance by pinching
her companion's arm and whispering a suggestion that his friend
should be invited to step into the carriage and go with them; it
being scarcely agreeable to stand there among so many gazers, and
keeping their friends waiting into the bargain.
'And so cold as it is too!' said he, glancing with dismay at her
slight drapery, and immediately handing her into the carriage.
'Markham, will you come?  We are going to Paris, but we can drop
you anywhere between this and Dover.'
'No, thank you.  Good-by - I needn't wish you a pleasant journey;
but I shall expect a very handsome apology, some time, mind, and
scores of letters, before we meet again.'
He shook my hand, and hastened to take his place beside his lady.
This was no time or place for explanation or discourse:  we had
already stood long enough to excite the wonder of the village
sight-seers, and perhaps the wrath of the attendant bridal party;
though, of course, all this passed in a much shorter time than I
have taken to relate, or even than you will take to read it.  I
stood beside the carriage, and, the window being down, I saw my
happy friend fondly encircle his companion's waist with his arm,
while she rested her glowing cheek on his shoulder, looking the
very impersonation of loving, trusting bliss.  In the interval
between the footman's closing the door and taking his place behind
she raised her smiling brown eyes to his face, observing,
playfully, - 'I fear you must think me very insensible, Frederick:
I know it is the custom for ladies to cry on these occasions, but I
couldn't squeeze a tear for my life.'
He only answered with a kiss, and pressed her still closer to his
bosom.
'But what is this?' he murmured.  'Why, Esther, you're crying now!'
'Oh, it's nothing - it's only too much happiness - and the wish,'
sobbed she, 'that our dear Helen were as happy as ourselves.'
'Bless you for that wish!' I inwardly responded, as the carriage
rolled away - 'and heaven grant it be not wholly vain!'
I thought a cloud had suddenly darkened her husband's face as she
spoke.  What did he think?  Could he grudge such happiness to his
dear sister and his friend as he now felt himself?  At such a
moment it was impossible.  The contrast between her fate and his
must darken his bliss for a time.  Perhaps, too, he thought of me:
perhaps he regretted the part he had had in preventing our union,
by omitting to help us, if not by actually plotting against us.  I
exonerated him from that charge now, and deeply lamented my former
ungenerous suspicions; but he had wronged us, still - I hoped, I
trusted that he had.  He had not attempted to cheek the course of
our love by actually damming up the streams in their passage, but
he had passively watched the two currents wandering through life's
arid wilderness, declining to clear away the obstructions that
divided them, and secretly hoping that both would lose themselves
in the sand before they could be joined in one.  And meantime he
had been quietly proceeding with his own affairs; perhaps, his
heart and head had been so full of his fair lady that he had had
but little thought to spare for others.  Doubtless he had made his
first acquaintance with her - his first intimate acquaintance at
least - during his three months' sojourn at F-, for I now
recollected that he had once casually let fall an intimation that
his aunt and sister had a young friend staying with them at the
time, and this accounted for at least one-half his silence about
all transactions there.  Now, too, I saw a reason for many little
things that had slightly puzzled me before; among the rest, for
sundry departures from Woodford, and absences more or less
prolonged, for which he never satisfactorily accounted, and
concerning which he hated to be questioned on his return.  Well
might the servant say his master was 'very close.'  But why this
strange reserve to me?  Partly, from that remarkable idiosyncrasy
to which I have before alluded; partly, perhaps, from tenderness to
my feelings, or fear to disturb my philosophy by touching upon the
infectious theme of love.
