
'Humph!  She'll be a fine catch for somebody.'
'She will so.  She's a widow, but quite young yet, and uncommon
handsome:  a fortune of her own, besides, and only one child, and
she's nursing a fine estate for him in -.  There'll be lots to
speak for her! 'fraid there's no chance for uz' - (facetiously
jogging me with his elbow, as well as his companion) - 'ha, ha, ha!
No offence, sir, I hope?' - (to me).  'Ahem!  I should think she'll
marry none but a nobleman myself.  Look ye, sir,' resumed he,
turning to his other neighbour, and pointing past me with his
umbrella, 'that's the Hall:  grand park, you see, and all them
woods - plenty of timber there, and lots of game.  Hallo! what
now?'
This exclamation was occasioned by the sudden stoppage of the coach
at the park-gates.
'Gen'leman for Staningley Hall?' cried the coachman and I rose and
threw my carpet-bag on to the ground, preparatory to dropping
myself down after it.
'Sickly, sir?' asked my talkative neighbour, staring me in the
face.  I daresay it was white enough.
'No.  Here, coachman!'
'Thank'ee, sir. - All right!'
The coachman pocketed his fee and drove away, leaving me, not
walking up the park, but pacing to and fro before its gates, with
folded arms, and eyes fixed upon the ground, an overwhelming force
of images, thoughts, impressions crowding on my mind, and nothing
tangibly distinct but this:  My love had been cherished in vain -
my hope was gone for ever; I must tear myself away at once, and
banish or suppress all thoughts of her, like the remembrance of a
wild, mad dream.  Gladly would I have lingered round the place for
hours, in the hope of catching at least one distant glimpse of her
before I went, but it must not be - I must not suffer her to see
me; for what could have brought me hither but the hope of reviving
her attachment, with a view hereafter to obtain her hand?  And
could I bear that she should think me capable of such a thing? - of
presuming upon the acquaintance - the love, if you will -
accidentally contracted, or rather forced upon her against her
will, when she was an unknown fugitive, toiling for her own
support, apparently without fortune, family, or connections; to
come upon her now, when she was reinstated in her proper sphere,
and claim a share in her prosperity, which, had it never failed
her, would most certainly have kept her unknown to me for ever?
And this, too, when we had parted sixteen months ago, and she had
expressly forbidden me to hope for a re-union in this world, and
never sent me a line or a message from that day to this.  No!  The
very idea was intolerable.
And even if she should have a lingering affection for me still,
ought I to disturb her peace by awakening those feelings? to
subject her to the struggles of conflicting duty and inclination -
to whichsoever side the latter might allure, or the former
imperatively call her - whether she should deem it her duty to risk
the slights and censures of the world, the sorrow and displeasure
of those she loved, for a romantic idea of truth and constancy to
me, or to sacrifice her individual wishes to the feelings of her
friends and her own sense of prudence and the fitness of things?
No - and I would not!  I would go at once, and she should never
know that I had approached the place of her abode:  for though I
might disclaim all idea of ever aspiring to her hand, or even of
soliciting a place in her friendly regard, her peace should not be
broken by my presence, nor her heart afflicted by the sight of my
fidelity.
'Adieu then, dear Helen, forever!  Forever adieu!'
So said I - and yet I could not tear myself away.  I moved a few
paces, and then looked back, for one last view of her stately home,
that I might have its outward form, at least, impressed upon my
mind as indelibly as her own image, which, alas! I must not see
again - then walked a few steps further; and then, lost in
melancholy musings, paused again and leant my back against a rough
old tree that grew beside the road.
CHAPTER LIII
While standing thus, absorbed in my gloomy reverie, a gentleman's
carriage came round the corner of the road.  I did not look at it;
and had it rolled quietly by me, I should not have remembered the
fact of its appearance at all; but a tiny voice from within it
roused me by exclaiming, 'Mamma, mamma, here's Mr. Markham!'
I did not hear the reply, but presently the same voice answered,
'It is indeed, mamma - look for yourself.'
I did not raise my eyes, but I suppose mamma looked, for a clear
melodious voice, whose tones thrilled through my nerves, exclaimed,
'Oh, aunt! here's Mr. Markham, Arthur's friend!  Stop, Richard!'
There was such evidence of joyous though suppressed excitement in
the utterance of those few words - especially that tremulous, 'Oh,
aunt' - that it threw me almost off my guard.  The carriage stopped
immediately, and I looked up and met the eye of a pale, grave,
elderly lady surveying me from the open window.  She bowed, and so
did I, and then she withdrew her head, while Arthur screamed to the
footman to let him out; but before that functionary could descend
from his box a hand was silently put forth from the carriage
window.  I knew that hand, though a black glove concealed its
delicate whiteness and half its fair proportions, and quickly
seizing it, I pressed it in my own - ardently for a moment, but
instantly recollecting myself, I dropped it, and it was immediately
withdrawn.
'Were you coming to see us, or only passing by?' asked the low
voice of its owner, who, I felt, was attentively surveying my
countenance from behind the thick black veil which, with the
shadowing panels, entirely concealed her own from me.
'I - I came to see the place,' faltered I.
'The place,' repeated she, in a tone which betokened more
displeasure or disappointment than surprise.
'Will you not enter it, then?'
'If you wish it.'
