
'Can you doubt?'
'Yes, yes! he must enter,' cried Arthur, running round from the
other door; and seizing my hand in both his, he shook it heartily.
'Do you remember me, sir?' said he.
'Yes, full well, my little man, altered though you are,' replied I,
surveying the comparatively tall, slim young gentleman, with his
mother's image visibly stamped upon his fair, intelligent features,
in spite of the blue eyes beaming with gladness, and the bright
locks clustering beneath his cap.
'Am I not grown?' said he, stretching himself up to his full
height.
'Grown! three inches, upon my word!'
'I was seven last birthday,' was the proud rejoinder.  'In seven
years more I shall be as tall as you nearly.'
'Arthur,' said his mother, 'tell him to come in.  Go on, Richard.'
There was a touch of sadness as well as coldness in her voice, but
I knew not to what to ascribe it.  The carriage drove on and
entered the gates before us.  My little companion led me up the
park, discoursing merrily all the way.  Arrived at the hall-door, I
paused on the steps and looked round me, waiting to recover my
composure, if possible - or, at any rate, to remember my new-formed
resolutions and the principles on which they were founded; and it
was not till Arthur had been for some time gently pulling my coat,
and repeating his invitations to enter, that I at length consented
to accompany him into the apartment where the ladies awaited us.
Helen eyed me as I entered with a kind of gentle, serious scrutiny,
and politely asked after Mrs. Markham and Rose.  I respectfully
answered her inquiries.  Mrs. Maxwell begged me to be seated,
observing it was rather cold, but she supposed I had not travelled
far that morning.
'Not quite twenty miles,' I answered.
'Not on foot!'
'No, Madam, by coach.'
'Here's Rachel, sir,' said Arthur, the only truly happy one amongst
us, directing my attention to that worthy individual, who had just
entered to take her mistress's things.  She vouchsafed me an almost
friendly smile of recognition - a favour that demanded, at least, a
civil salutation on my part, which was accordingly given and
respectfully returned - she had seen the error of her former
estimation of my character.
When Helen was divested of her lugubrious bonnet and veil, her
heavy winter cloak, &c., she looked so like herself that I knew not
how to bear it.  I was particularly glad to see her beautiful black
hair, unstinted still, and unconcealed in its glossy luxuriance.
'Mamma has left off her widow's cap in honour of uncle's marriage,'
observed Arthur, reading my looks with a child's mingled simplicity
and quickness of observation.  Mamma looked grave and Mrs. Maxwell
shook her head.  'And aunt Maxwell is never going to leave off
hers,' persisted the naughty boy; but when he saw that his pertness
was seriously displeasing and painful to his aunt, he went and
silently put his arm round her neck, kissed her cheek, and withdrew
to the recess of one of the great bay-windows, where he quietly
amused himself with his dog, while Mrs. Maxwell gravely discussed
with me the interesting topics of the weather, the season, and the
roads.  I considered her presence very useful as a check upon my
natural impulses - an antidote to those emotions of tumultuous
excitement which would otherwise have carried me away against my
reason and my will; but just then I felt the restraint almost
intolerable, and I had the greatest difficulty in forcing myself to
attend to her remarks and answer them with ordinary politeness; for
I was sensible that Helen was standing within a few feet of me
beside the fire.  I dared not look at her, but I felt her eye was
upon me, and from one hasty, furtive glance, I thought her cheek
was slightly flushed, and that her fingers, as she played with her
watch-chain, were agitated with that restless, trembling motion
which betokens high excitement.
'Tell me,' said she, availing herself of the first pause in the
attempted conversation between her aunt and me, and speaking fast
and low, with her eyes bent on the gold chain - for I now ventured
another glance - 'Tell me how you all are at Linden-hope - has
nothing happened since I left you?'
'I believe not.'
'Nobody dead? nobody married?'
'No.'
'Or - or expecting to marry? - No old ties dissolved or new ones
formed? no old friends forgotten or supplanted?'
She dropped her voice so low in the last sentence that no one could
have caught the concluding words but myself, and at the same time
turned her eyes upon me with a dawning smile, most sweetly
melancholy, and a look of timid though keen inquiry that made my
cheeks tingle with inexpressible emotions.
'I believe not,' I answered.  'Certainly not, if others are as
little changed as I.'  Her face glowed in sympathy with mine.
'And you really did not mean to call?' she exclaimed.
'I feared to intrude.'
