
'You told me you were not changed,' said my companion:  'you are -
very much so.'
'No, Mrs. Huntingdon, I only ought to be.'
'Do you mean to maintain that you have the same regard for me that
you had when last we met?'
'I have; but it would be wrong to talk of it now.'
'It was wrong to talk of it then, Gilbert; it would not now -
unless to do so would be to violate the truth.'
I was too much agitated to speak; but, without waiting for an
answer, she turned away her glistening eye and crimson cheek, and
threw up the window and looked out, whether to calm her own,
excited feelings, or to relieve her embarrassment, or only to pluck
that beautiful half-blown Christmas-rose that grew upon the little
shrub without, just peeping from the snow that had hitherto, no
doubt, defended it from the frost, and was now melting away in the
sun.  Pluck it, however, she did, and having gently dashed the
glittering powder from its leaves, approached it to her lips and
said:
'This rose is not so fragrant as a summer flower, but it has stood
through hardships none of them could bear:  the cold rain of winter
has sufficed to nourish it, and its faint sun to warm it; the bleak
winds have not blanched it, or broken its stem, and the keen frost
has not blighted it.  Look, Gilbert, it is still fresh and blooming
as a flower can be, with the cold snow even now on its petals. -
Will you have it?'
I held out my hand:  I dared not speak lest my emotion should
overmaster me.  She laid the rose across my palm, but I scarcely
closed my fingers upon it, so deeply was I absorbed in thinking
what might be the meaning of her words, and what I ought to do or
say upon the occasion; whether to give way to my feelings or
restrain them still.  Misconstruing this hesitation into
indifference - or reluctance even - to accept her gift, Helen
suddenly snatched it from my hand, threw it out on to the snow,
shut down the window with an emphasis, and withdrew to the fire.
'Helen, what means this?' I cried, electrified at this startling
change in her demeanour.
'You did not understand my gift,' said she - 'or, what is worse,
you despised it.  I'm sorry I gave it you; but since I did make
such a mistake, the only remedy I could think of was to take it
away.'
'You misunderstood me cruelly,' I replied, and in a minute I had
opened the window again, leaped out, picked up the flower, brought
it in, and presented it to her, imploring her to give it me again,
and I would keep it for ever for her sake, and prize it more highly
than anything in the world I possessed.
'And will this content you?' said she, as she took it in her hand.
'It shall,' I answered.
'There, then; take it.'
I pressed it earnestly to my lips, and put it in my bosom, Mrs.
Huntingdon looking on with a half-sarcastic smile.
'Now, are you going?' said she.
'I will if - if I must.'
'You are changed,' persisted she - 'you are grown either very proud
or very indifferent.'
'I am neither, Helen - Mrs. Huntingdon.  If you could see my heart
- '
'You must be one, - if not both.  And why Mrs. Huntingdon? - why
not Helen, as before?'
'Helen, then - dear Helen!' I murmured.  I was in an agony of
mingled love, hope, delight, uncertainty, and suspense.
'The rose I gave you was an emblem of my heart,' said she; 'would
you take it away and leave me here alone?'
'Would you give me your hand too, if I asked it?'
'Have I not said enough?' she answered, with a most enchanting
smile.  I snatched her hand, and would have fervently kissed it,
but suddenly checked myself, and said, -
'But have you considered the consequences?'
