
I had not looked through half the book before Mrs. Maxwell appeared
to invite me into the other room to lunch.  That lady's cool,
distant manners rather chilled me at first; but I did my best to
propitiate her, and not entirely without success, I think, even in
that first short visit; for when I talked cheerfully to her, she
gradually became more kind and cordial, and when I departed she
bade me a gracious adieu, hoping ere long to have the pleasure of
seeing me again.
'But you must not go till you have seen the conservatory, my aunt's
winter garden,' said Helen, as I advanced to take leave of her,
with as much philosophy and self-command as I could summon to my
aid.
I gladly availed myself of such a respite, and followed her into a
large and beautiful conservatory, plentifully furnished with
flowers, considering the season - but, of course, I had little
attention to spare for them.  It was not, however, for any tender
colloquy that my companion had brought me there:-
'My aunt is particularly fond of flowers,' she observed, 'and she
is fond of Staningley too:  I brought you here to offer a petition
in her behalf, that this may be her home as long as she lives, and
- if it be not our home likewise - that I may often see her and be
with her; for I fear she will be sorry to lose me; and though she
leads a retired and contemplative life, she is apt to get low-
spirited if left too much alone.'
'By all means, dearest Helen! - do what you will with your own.  I
should not dream of wishing your aunt to leave the place under any
circumstances; and we will live either here or elsewhere as you and
she may determine, and you shall see her as often as you like.  I
know she must be pained to part with you, and I am willing to make
any reparation in my power.  I love her for your sake, and her
happiness shall be as dear to me as that of my own mother.'
'Thank you, darling! you shall have a kiss for that.  Good-by.
There now - there, Gilbert - let me go - here's Arthur; don't
astonish his infantile brain with your madness.'
* * * * *
But it is time to bring my narrative to a close.  Any one but you
would say I had made it too long already.  But for your
satisfaction I will add a few words more; because I know you will
have a fellow-feeling for the old lady, and will wish to know the
last of her history.  I did come again in spring, and, agreeably to
Helen's injunctions, did my best to cultivate her acquaintance.
She received me very kindly, having been, doubtless, already
prepared to think highly of my character by her niece's too
favourable report.  I turned my best side out, of course, and we
got along marvellously well together.  When my ambitious intentions
were made known to her, she took it more sensibly than I had
ventured to hope.  Her only remark on the subject, in my hearing,
was -
'And so, Mr. Markham, you are going to rob me of my niece, I
understand.  Well!  I hope God will prosper your union, and make my
dear girl happy at last.  Could she have been contented to remain
single, I own I should have been better satisfied; but if she must
marry again, I know of no one, now living and of a suitable age, to
whom I would more willingly resign her than yourself, or who would
be more likely to appreciate her worth and make, her truly happy,
as far as I can tell.'
Of course I was delighted with the compliment, and hoped to show
her that she was not mistaken in her favourable judgment.
'I have, however, one request to offer,' continued she.  'It seems
I am still to look on Staningley as my home:  I wish you to make it
yours likewise, for Helen is attached to the place and to me - as I
am to her.  There are painful associations connected with
Grassdale, which she cannot easily overcome; and I shall not molest
you with my company or interference here:  I am a very quiet
person, and shall keep my own apartments, and attend to my own
concerns, and only see you now and then.'
Of course I most readily consented to this; and we lived in the
greatest harmony with our dear aunt until the day of her death,
which melancholy event took place a few years after - melancholy,
not to herself (for it came quietly upon her, and she was glad to
reach her journey's end), but only to the few loving friends and
grateful dependents she left behind.
To return, however, to my own affairs:  I was married in summer, on
a glorious August morning.  It took the whole eight months, and all
Helen's kindness and goodness to boot, to overcome my mother's
prejudices against my bride-elect, and to reconcile her to the idea
of my leaving Linden Grange and living so far away.  Yet she was
gratified at her son's good fortune after all, and proudly
attributed it all to his own superior merits and endowments.  I
bequeathed the farm to Fergus, with better hopes of its prosperity
than I should have had a year ago under similar circumstances; for
he had lately fallen in love with the Vicar of L-'s eldest daughter
- a lady whose superiority had roused his latent virtues, and
stimulated him to the most surprising exertions, not only to gain
her affection and esteem, and to obtain a fortune sufficient to
aspire to her hand, but to render himself worthy of her, in his own
eyes, as well as in those of her parents; and in the end he was
successful, as you already know.  As for myself, I need not tell
you how happily my Helen and I have lived together, and how blessed
we still are in each other's society, and in the promising young
scions that are growing up about us.  We are just now looking
forward to the advent of you and Rose, for the time of your annual
visit draws nigh, when you must leave your dusty, smoky, noisy,
toiling, striving city for a season of invigorating relaxation and
social retirement with us.
Till then, farewell,
GILBERT MARKHAM.
STANINGLEY:  June 10TH, 1847.
