
She closed her lips and folded her hands before her, with an air of
injured meekness.
'If you had wished not to anger me, you should have held your
tongue from the beginning, or else spoken out plainly and honestly
all you had to say.'
She turned aside her face, pulled out her handkerchief, rose, and
went to the window, where she stood for some time, evidently
dissolved in tears.  I was astounded, provoked, ashamed - not so
much of my harshness as for her childish weakness.  However, no one
seemed to notice her, and shortly after we were summoned to the
tea-table:  in those parts it was customary to sit to the table at
tea-time on all occasions, and make a meal of it, for we dined
early.  On taking my seat, I had Rose on one side of me and an
empty chair on the other.
'May I sit by you?' said a soft voice at my elbow.
'If you like,' was the reply; and Eliza slipped into the vacant
chair; then, looking up in my face with a half-sad, half-playful
smile, she whispered, - 'You're so stern, Gilbert.'
I handed down her tea with a slightly contemptuous smile, and said
nothing, for I had nothing to say.
'What have I done to offend you?' said she, more plaintively.  'I
wish I knew.'
'Come, take your tea, Eliza, and don't be foolish,' responded I,
handing her the sugar and cream.
Just then there arose a slight commotion on the other side of me,
occasioned by Miss Wilson's coming to negotiate an exchange of
seats with Rose.
'Will you be so good as to exchange places with me, Miss Markham?'
said she; 'for I don't like to sit by Mrs. Graham.  If your mamma
thinks proper to invite such persons to her house, she cannot
object to her daughter's keeping company with them.'
This latter clause was added in a sort of soliloquy when Rose was
gone; but I was not polite enough to let it pass.
'Will you be so good as to tell me what you mean, Miss Wilson?'
said I.
The question startled her a little, but not much.
'Why, Mr. Markham,' replied she, coolly, having quickly recovered
her self-possession, 'it surprises me rather that Mrs. Markham
should invite such a person as Mrs. Graham to her house; but,
perhaps, she is not aware that the lady's character is considered
scarcely respectable.'
'She is not, nor am I; and therefore you would oblige me by
explaining your meaning a little further.'
'This is scarcely the time or the place for such explanations; but
I think you can hardly be so ignorant as you pretend - you must
know her as well as I do.'
'I think I do, perhaps a little better; and therefore, if you will
inform me what you have heard or imagined against her, I shall,
perhaps, be able to set you right.'
'Can you tell me, then, who was her husband, or if she ever had
any?'
Indignation kept me silent.  At such a time and place I could not
trust myself to answer.
'Have you never observed,' said Eliza, 'what a striking likeness
there is between that child of hers and - '
'And whom?' demanded Miss Wilson, with an air of cold, but keen
severity.
Eliza was startled; the timidly spoken suggestion had been intended
for my ear alone.
'Oh, I beg your pardon!' pleaded she; 'I may be mistaken - perhaps
I was mistaken.'  But she accompanied the words with a sly glance
of derision directed to me from the corner of her disingenuous eye.
'There's no need to ask my pardon,' replied her friend, 'but I see
no one here that at all resembles that child, except his mother,
and when you hear ill-natured reports, Miss Eliza, I will thank
you, that is, I think you will do well, to refrain from repeating
them.  I presume the person you allude to is Mr. Lawrence; but I
think I can assure you that your suspicions, in that respect, are
utterly misplaced; and if he has any particular connection with the
lady at all (which no one has a right to assert), at least he has
(what cannot be said of some others) sufficient sense of propriety
to withhold him from acknowledging anything more than a bowing
acquaintance in the presence of respectable persons; he was
evidently both surprised and annoyed to find her here.'
'Go it!' cried Fergus, who sat on the other side of Eliza, and was
the only individual who shared that side of the table with us.  'Go
it like bricks! mind you don't leave her one stone upon another.'
