
And they did look beautiful, where at intervals the level rays of
the sun penetrating the thickness of trees and shrubs on the
opposite side of the path before us, relieved their dusky verdure
by displaying patches of semi-transparent leaves of resplendent
golden green.
'I almost wish I were not a painter,' observed my companion.
'Why so? one would think at such a time you would most exult in
your privilege of being able to imitate the various brilliant and
delightful touches of nature.'
'No; for instead of delivering myself up to the full enjoyment of
them as others do, I am always troubling my head about how I could
produce the same effect upon canvas; and as that can never be done,
it is more vanity and vexation of spirit.'
'Perhaps you cannot do it to satisfy yourself, but you may and do
succeed in delighting others with the result of your endeavours.'
'Well, after all, I should not complain:  perhaps few people gain
their livelihood with so much pleasure in their toil as I do.  Here
is some one coming.'
She seemed vexed at the interruption.
'It is only Mr. Lawrence and Miss Wilson,' said I, 'coming to enjoy
a quiet stroll.  They will not disturb us.'
I could not quite decipher the expression of her face; but I was
satisfied there was no jealousy therein.  What business had I to
look for it?
'What sort of a person is Miss Wilson?' she asked.
'She is elegant and accomplished above the generality of her birth
and station; and some say she is ladylike and agreeable.'
'I thought her somewhat frigid and rather supercilious in her
manner to-day.'
'Very likely she might be so to you.  She has possibly taken a
prejudice against you, for I think she regards you in the light of
a rival.'
'Me!  Impossible, Mr. Markham!' said she, evidently astonished and
annoyed.
'Well, I know nothing about it,' returned I, rather doggedly; for I
thought her annoyance was chiefly against myself.
The pair had now approached within a few paces of us.  Our arbour
was set snugly back in a corner, before which the avenue at its
termination turned off into the more airy walk along the bottom of
the garden.  As they approached this, I saw, by the aspect of Jane
Wilson, that she was directing her companion's attention to us;
and, as well by her cold, sarcastic smile as by the few isolated
words of her discourse that reached me, I knew full well that she
was impressing him with the idea, that we were strongly attached to
each other.  I noticed that he coloured up to the temples, gave us
one furtive glance in passing, and walked on, looking grave, but
seemingly offering no reply to her remarks.
It was true, then, that he had some designs upon Mrs. Graham; and,
were they honourable, he would not be so anxious to conceal them.
She was blameless, of course, but he was detestable beyond all
count.
While these thoughts flashed through my mind, my companion abruptly
rose, and calling her son, said they would now go in quest of the
company, and departed up the avenue.  Doubtless she had heard or
guessed something of Miss Wilson's remarks, and therefore it was
natural enough she should choose to continue the TETE-E-TETE no
longer, especially as at that moment my cheeks were burning with
indignation against my former friend, the token of which she might
mistake for a blush of stupid embarrassment.  For this I owed Miss
Wilson yet another grudge; and still the more I thought upon her
conduct the more I hated her.
It was late in the evening before I joined the company.  I found
Mrs. Graham already equipped for departure, and taking leave of the
rest, who were now returned to the house.  I offered, nay, begged
to accompany her home.  Mr. Lawrence was standing by at the time
conversing with some one else.  He did not look at us, but, on
hearing my earnest request, he paused in the middle of a sentence
to listen for her reply, and went on, with a look of quiet
satisfaction, the moment he found it was to be a denial.
A denial it was, decided, though not unkind.  She could not be
persuaded to think there was danger for herself or her child in
traversing those lonely lanes and fields without attendance.  It
was daylight still, and she should meet no one; or if she did, the
people were quiet and harmless she was well assured.  In fact, she
would not hear of any one's putting himself out of the way to
accompany her, though Fergus vouchsafed to offer his services in
case they should be more acceptable than mine, and my mother begged
she might send one of the farming-men to escort her.
When she was gone the rest was all a blank or worse.  Lawrence
attempted to draw me into conversation, but I snubbed him and went
to another part of the room.  Shortly after the party broke up and
he himself took leave.  When he came to me I was blind to his
extended hand, and deaf to his good-night till he repeated it a
second time; and then, to get rid of him, I muttered an
inarticulate reply, accompanied by a sulky nod.
'What is the matter, Markham?' whispered he.
I replied by a wrathful and contemptuous stare.
'Are you angry because Mrs. Graham would not let you go home with
her?' he asked, with a faint smile that nearly exasperated me
beyond control.
But, swallowing down all fiercer answers, I merely demanded, -
'What business is it of yours?'
