
'Why, none,' replied he with provoking quietness; 'only,' - and he
raised his eyes to my face, and spoke with unusual solemnity, -
'only let me tell you, Markham, that if you have any designs in
that quarter, they will certainly fail; and it grieves me to see
you cherishing false hopes, and wasting your strength in useless
efforts, for - '
'Hypocrite!' I exclaimed; and he held his breath, and looked very
blank, turned white about the gills, and went away without another
word.
I had wounded him to the quick; and I was glad of it.
CHAPTER X
When all were gone, I learnt that the vile slander had indeed been
circulated throughout the company, in the very presence of the
victim.  Rose, however, vowed she did not and would not believe it,
and my mother made the same declaration, though not, I fear, with
the same amount of real, unwavering incredulity.  It seemed to
dwell continually on her mind, and she kept irritating me from time
to time by such expressions as - 'Dear, dear, who would have
thought it! - Well!  I always thought there was something odd about
her. - You see what it is for women to affect to be different to
other people.'  And once it was, - 'I misdoubted that appearance of
mystery from the very first - I thought there would no good come of
it; but this is a sad, sad business, to be sure!'
'Why, mother, you said you didn't believe these tales,' said
Fergus.
'No more I do, my dear; but then, you know, there must be some
foundation.'
'The foundation is in the wickedness and falsehood of the world,'
said I, 'and in the fact that Mr. Lawrence has been seen to go that
way once or twice of an evening - and the village gossips say he
goes to pay his addresses to the strange lady, and the scandal-
mongers have greedily seized the rumour, to make it the basis of
their own infernal structure.'
'Well, but, Gilbert, there must be something in her manner to
countenance such reports.'
'Did you see anything in her manner?'
'No, certainly; but then, you know, I always said there was
something strange about her.'
I believe it was on that very evening that I ventured on another
invasion of Wildfell Hall.  From the time of our party, which was
upwards of a week ago, I had been making daily efforts to meet its
mistress in her walks; and always disappointed (she must have
managed it so on purpose), had nightly kept revolving in my mind
some pretext for another call.  At length I concluded that the
separation could be endured no longer (by this time, you will see,
I was pretty far gone); and, taking from the book-case an old
volume that I thought she might be interested in, though, from its
unsightly and somewhat dilapidated condition, I had not yet
ventured to offer it for perusal, I hastened away, - but not
without sundry misgivings as to how she would receive me, or how I
could summon courage to present myself with so slight an excuse.
But, perhaps, I might see her in the field or the garden, and then
there would be no great difficulty:  it was the formal knocking at
the door, with the prospect of being gravely ushered in by Rachel,
to the presence of a surprised, uncordial mistress, that so greatly
disturbed me.
My wish, however, was not gratified.  Mrs. Graham herself was not
to be seen; but there was Arthur playing with his frolicsome little
dog in the garden.  I looked over the gate and called him to me.
He wanted me to come in; but I told him I could not without his
mother's leave.
'I'll go and ask her,' said the child.
'No, no, Arthur, you mustn't do that; but if she's not engaged,
just ask her to come here a minute.  Tell her I want to speak to
her.'
He ran to perform my bidding, and quickly returned with his mother.
How lovely she looked with her dark ringlets streaming in the light
summer breeze, her fair cheek slightly flushed, and her countenance
radiant with smiles.  Dear Arthur! what did I not owe to you for
this and every other happy meeting?  Through him I was at once
delivered from all formality, and terror, and constraint.  In love
affairs, there is no mediator like a merry, simple-hearted child -
ever ready to cement divided hearts, to span the unfriendly gulf of
custom, to melt the ice of cold reserve, and overthrow the
separating walls of dread formality and pride.
'Well, Mr. Markham, what is it?' said the young mother, accosting
me with a pleasant smile.
'I want you to look at this book, and, if you please, to take it,
and peruse it at your leisure.  I make no apology for calling you
out on such a lovely evening, though it be for a matter of no
greater importance.'
'Tell him to come in, mamma,' said Arthur.
'Would you like to come in?' asked the lady.
'Yes; I should like to see your improvements in the garden.'
