
'And how your sister's roots have prospered in my charge,' added
she, as she opened the gate.
And we sauntered through the garden, and talked of the flowers, the
trees, and the book, and then of other things.  The evening was
kind and genial, and so was my companion.  By degrees I waxed more
warm and tender than, perhaps, I had ever been before; but still I
said nothing tangible, and she attempted no repulse, until, in
passing a moss rose-tree that I had brought her some weeks since,
in my sister's name, she plucked a beautiful half-open bud and bade
me give it to Rose.
'May I not keep it myself?' I asked.
'No; but here is another for you.'
Instead of taking it quietly, I likewise took the hand that offered
it, and looked into her face.  She let me hold it for a moment, and
I saw a flash of ecstatic brilliance in her eye, a glow of glad
excitement on her face - I thought my hour of victory was come -
but instantly a painful recollection seemed to flash upon her; a
cloud of anguish darkened her brow, a marble paleness blanched her
cheek and lip; there seemed a moment of inward conflict, and, with
a sudden effort, she withdrew her hand, and retreated a step or two
back.
'Now, Mr. Markham,' said she, with a kind of desperate calmness, 'I
must tell you plainly that I cannot do with this.  I like your
company, because I am alone here, and your conversation pleases me
more than that of any other person; but if you cannot be content to
regard me as a friend - a plain, cold, motherly, or sisterly friend
- I must beg you to leave me now, and let me alone hereafter:  in
fact, we must be strangers for the future.'
'I will, then - be your friend, or brother, or anything you wish,
if you will only let me continue to see you; but tell me why I
cannot be anything more?'
There was a perplexed and thoughtful pause.
'Is it in consequence of some rash vow?'
'It is something of the kind,' she answered.  'Some day I may tell
you, but at present you had better leave me; and never, Gilbert,
put me to the painful necessity of repeating what I have just now
said to you,' she earnestly added, giving me her hand in serious
kindness.  How sweet, how musical my own name sounded in her mouth!
'I will not,' I replied.  'But you pardon this offence?'
'On condition that you never repeat it.'
'And may I come to see you now and then?'
'Perhaps - occasionally; provided you never abuse the privilege.'
'I make no empty promises, but you shall see.'
'The moment you do our intimacy is at an end, that's all.'
'And will you always call me Gilbert?  It sounds more sisterly, and
it will serve to remind me of our contract.'
She smiled, and once more bid me go; and at length I judged it
prudent to obey, and she re-entered the house and I went down the
hill.  But as I went the tramp of horses' hoofs fell on my ear, and
broke the stillness of the dewy evening; and, looking towards the
lane, I saw a solitary equestrian coming up.  Inclining to dusk as
it was, I knew him at a glance:  it was Mr. Lawrence on his grey
pony.  I flew across the field, leaped the stone fence, and then
walked down the lane to meet him.  On seeing me, he suddenly drew
in his little steed, and seemed inclined to turn back, but on
second thought apparently judged it better to continue his course
as before.  He accosted me with a slight bow, and, edging close to
the wall, endeavoured to pass on; but I was not so minded.  Seizing
his horse by the bridle, I exclaimed, - 'Now, Lawrence, I will have
this mystery explained!  Tell me where you are going, and what you
mean to do - at once, and distinctly!'
'Will you take your hand off the bridle?' said he, quietly -
'you're hurting my pony's mouth.'
'You and your pony be - '
'What makes you so coarse and brutal, Markham?  I'm quite ashamed
of you.'
'You answer my questions - before you leave this spot I will know
what you mean by this perfidious duplicity!'
'I shall answer no questions till you let go the bridle, - if you
stand till morning.'
'Now then,' said I, unclosing my hand, but still standing before
him.
'Ask me some other time, when you can speak like a gentleman,'
returned he, and he made an effort to pass me again; but I quickly
re-captured the pony, scarce less astonished than its master at
such uncivil usage.
