
'Really, Mr. Markham, this is too much!' said the latter.  'Can I
not go to see my tenant on matters of business, without being
assaulted in this manner by -?'
'This is no time for business, sir! - I'll tell you, now, what I
think of your conduct.'
'You'd better defer your opinion to a more convenient season,'
interrupted he in a low tone - 'here's the vicar.'  And, in truth,
the vicar was just behind me, plodding homeward from some remote
corner of his parish.  I immediately released the squire; and he
went on his way, saluting Mr. Millward as he passed.
'What! quarrelling, Markham?' cried the latter, addressing himself
to me, - 'and about that young widow, I doubt?' he added,
reproachfully shaking his head.  'But let me tell you, young man'
(here he put his face into mine with an important, confidential
air), 'she's not worth it!' and he confirmed the assertion by a
solemn nod.
'MR. MILLWARD,' I exclaimed, in a tone of wrathful menace that made
the reverend gentleman look round - aghast - astounded at such
unwonted insolence, and stare me in the face, with a look that
plainly said, 'What, this to me!'  But I was too indignant to
apologise, or to speak another word to him:  I turned away, and
hastened homewards, descending with rapid strides the steep, rough
lane, and leaving him to follow as he pleased.
CHAPTER XI
You must suppose about three weeks passed over.  Mrs. Graham and I
were now established friends - or brother and sister, as we rather
chose to consider ourselves.  She called me Gilbert, by my express
desire, and I called her Helen, for I had seen that name written in
her books.  I seldom attempted to see her above twice a week; and
still I made our meetings appear the result of accident as often as
I could - for I found it necessary to be extremely careful - and,
altogether, I behaved with such exceeding propriety that she never
had occasion to reprove me once.  Yet I could not but perceive that
she was at times unhappy and dissatisfied with herself or her
position, and truly I myself was not quite contented with the
latter:  this assumption of brotherly nonchalance was very hard to
sustain, and I often felt myself a most confounded hypocrite with
it all; I saw too, or rather I felt, that, in spite of herself, 'I
was not indifferent to her,' as the novel heroes modestly express
it, and while I thankfully enjoyed my present good fortune, I could
not fail to wish and hope for something better in future; but, of
course, I kept such dreams entirely to myself.
'Where are you going, Gilbert?' said Rose, one evening, shortly
after tea, when I had been busy with the farm all day.
'To take a walk,' was the reply.
'Do you always brush your hat so carefully, and do your hair so
nicely, and put on such smart new gloves when you take a walk?'
'Not always.'
'You're going to Wildfell Hall, aren't you?'
'What makes you think so?'
'Because you look as if you were - but I wish you wouldn't go so
often.'
'Nonsense, child!  I don't go once in six weeks - what do you
mean?'
'Well, but if I were you, I wouldn't have so much to do with Mrs.
Graham.'
'Why, Rose, are you, too, giving in to the prevailing opinion?'
'No,' returned she, hesitatingly - 'but I've heard so much about
her lately, both at the Wilsons' and the vicarage; - and besides,
mamma says, if she were a proper person she would not be living
there by herself - and don't you remember last winter, Gilbert, all
that about the false name to the picture; and how she explained it
- saying she had friends or acquaintances from whom she wished her
present residence to be concealed, and that she was afraid of their
tracing her out; - and then, how suddenly she started up and left
the room when that person came - whom she took good care not to let
us catch a glimpse of, and who Arthur, with such an air of mystery,
told us was his mamma's friend?'
'Yes, Rose, I remember it all; and I can forgive your uncharitable
conclusions; for, perhaps, if I did not know her myself, I should
put all these things together, and believe the same as you do; but
thank God, I do know her; and I should be unworthy the name of a
man, if I could believe anything that was said against her, unless
I heard it from her own lips. - I should as soon believe such
things of you, Rose.'
'Oh, Gilbert!'
'Well, do you think I could believe anything of the kind, -
whatever the Wilsons and Millwards dared to whisper?'
