
'I should hope not indeed!'
'And why not? - Because I know you - Well, and I know her just as
well.'
'Oh, no! you know nothing of her former life; and last year, at
this time, you did not know that such a person existed.'
'No matter.  There is such a thing as looking through a person's
eyes into the heart, and learning more of the height, and breadth,
and depth of another's soul in one hour than it might take you a
lifetime to discover, if he or she were not disposed to reveal it,
or if you had not the sense to understand it.'
'Then you are going to see her this evening?'
'To be sure I am!'
'But what would mamma say, Gilbert!'
'Mamma needn't know.'
'But she must know some time, if you go on.'
'Go on! - there's no going on in the matter.  Mrs. Graham and I are
two friends - and will be; and no man breathing shall hinder it, -
or has a right to interfere between us.'
'But if you knew how they talk you would be more careful, for her
sake as well as for your own.  Jane Wilson thinks your visits to
the old hall but another proof of her depravity - '
'Confound Jane Wilson!'
'And Eliza Millward is quite grieved about you.'
'I hope she is.'
'But I wouldn't, if I were you.'
'Wouldn't what? - How do they know that I go there?'
'There's nothing hid from them:  they spy out everything.'
'Oh, I never thought of this! - And so they dare to turn my
friendship into food for further scandal against her! - That proves
the falsehood of their other lies, at all events, if any proof were
wanting. - Mind you contradict them, Rose, whenever you can.'
'But they don't speak openly to me about such things:  it is only
by hints and innuendoes, and by what I hear others say, that I knew
what they think.'
'Well, then, I won't go to-day, as it's getting latish.  But oh,
deuce take their cursed, envenomed tongues!' I muttered, in the
bitterness of my soul.
And just at that moment the vicar entered the room:  we had been
too much absorbed in our conversation to observe his knock.  After
his customary cheerful and fatherly greeting of Rose, who was
rather a favourite with the old gentleman, he turned somewhat
sternly to me:-
'Well, sir!' said he, 'you're quite a stranger.  It is - let - me -
see,' he continued, slowly, as he deposited his ponderous bulk in
the arm-chair that Rose officiously brought towards him; 'it is
just - six-weeks - by my reckoning, since you darkened - my -
door!'  He spoke it with emphasis, and struck his stick on the
floor.
'Is it, sir?' said I.
'Ay!  It is so!'  He added an affirmatory nod, and continued to
gaze upon me with a kind of irate solemnity, holding his
substantial stick between his knees, with his hands clasped upon
its head.
'I have been busy,' I said, for an apology was evidently demanded.
