
'Busy!' repeated he, derisively.
'Yes, you know I've been getting in my hay; and now the harvest is
beginning.'
'Humph!'
Just then my mother came in, and created a diversion in my favour
by her loquacious and animated welcome of the reverend guest.  She
regretted deeply that he had not come a little earlier, in time for
tea, but offered to have some immediately prepared, if he would do
her the favour to partake of it.
'Not any for me, I thank you,' replied he; 'I shall be at home in a
few minutes.'
'Oh, but do stay and take a little! it will be ready in five
minutes.'
But he rejected the offer with a majestic wave of the hand.
'I'll tell you what I'll take, Mrs. Markham,' said he:  'I'll take
a glass of your excellent ale.'
'With pleasure!' cried my mother, proceeding with alacrity to pull
the bell and order the favoured beverage.
'I thought,' continued he, 'I'd just look in upon you as I passed,
and taste your home-brewed ale.  I've been to call on Mrs. Graham.'
'Have you, indeed?'
He nodded gravely, and added with awful emphasis - 'I thought it
incumbent upon me to do so.'
'Really!' ejaculated my mother.
'Why so, Mr. Millward?' asked I.
He looked at me with some severity, and turning again to my mother,
repeated, - 'I thought it incumbent upon me!' and struck his stick
on the floor again.  My mother sat opposite, an awe-struck but
admiring auditor.
'"Mrs. Graham," said I,' he continued, shaking his head as he
spoke, '"these are terrible reports!"  "What, sir?" says she,
affecting to be ignorant of my meaning.  "It is my - duty - as -
your pastor," said I, "to tell you both everything that I myself
see reprehensible in your conduct, and all I have reason to
suspect, and what others tell me concerning you." - So I told her!'
'You did, sir?' cried I, starting from my seat and striking my fist
on the table.  He merely glanced towards me, and continued -
addressing his hostess:-
'It was a painful duty, Mrs. Markham - but I told her!'
'And how did she take it?' asked my mother.
'Hardened, I fear - hardened!' he replied, with a despondent shake
of the head; 'and, at the same time, there was a strong display of
unchastened, misdirected passions.  She turned white in the face,
and drew her breath through her teeth in a savage sort of way; -
but she offered no extenuation or defence; and with a kind of
shameless calmness - shocking indeed to witness in one so young -
as good as told me that my remonstrance was unavailing, and my
pastoral advice quite thrown away upon her - nay, that my very
presence was displeasing while I spoke such things.  And I withdrew
at length, too plainly seeing that nothing could be done - and
sadly grieved to find her case so hopeless.  But I am fully
determined, Mrs. Markham, that my daughters - shall - not - consort
with her.  Do you adopt the same resolution with regard to yours! -
As for your sons - as for you, young man,' he continued, sternly
turning to me -
'As for ME, sir,' I began, but checked by some impediment in my
utterance, and finding that my whole frame trembled with fury, I
said no more, but took the wiser part of snatching up my hat and
bolting from the room, slamming the door behind me, with a bang
that shook the house to its foundations, and made my mother scream,
and gave a momentary relief to my excited feelings.
The next minute saw me hurrying with rapid strides in the direction
of Wildfell Hall - to what intent or purpose I could scarcely tell,
but I must be moving somewhere, and no other goal would do - I must
see her too, and speak to her - that was certain; but what to say,
or how to act, I had no definite idea.  Such stormy thoughts - so
many different resolutions crowded in upon me, that my mind was
little better than a chaos of conflicting passions.
CHAPTER XII
