
In little more than twenty minutes the journey was accomplished.  I
paused at the gate to wipe my streaming forehead, and recover my
breath and some degree of composure.  Already the rapid walking had
somewhat mitigated my excitement; and with a firm and steady tread
I paced the garden-walk.  In passing the inhabited wing of the
building, I caught a sight of Mrs. Graham, through the open window,
slowly pacing up and down her lonely room.
She seemed agitated and even dismayed at my arrival, as if she
thought I too was coming to accuse her.  I had entered her presence
intending to condole with her upon the wickedness of the world, and
help her to abuse the vicar and his vile informants, but now I felt
positively ashamed to mention the subject, and determined not to
refer to it, unless she led the way.
'I am come at an unseasonable hour,' said I, assuming a
cheerfulness I did not feel, in order to reassure her; 'but I won't
stay many minutes.'
She smiled upon me, faintly it is true, but most kindly - I had
almost said thankfully, as her apprehensions were removed.
'How dismal you are, Helen!  Why have you no fire?' I said, looking
round on the gloomy apartment.
'It is summer yet,' she replied.
'But we always have a fire in the evenings, if we can bear it; and
you especially require one in this cold house and dreary room.'
'You should have come a little sooner, and I would have had one
lighted for you:  but it is not worth while now - you won't stay
many minutes, you say, and Arthur is gone to bed.'
'But I have a fancy for a fire, nevertheless.  Will you order one,
if I ring?'
'Why, Gilbert, you don't look cold!' said she, smilingly regarding
my face, which no doubt seemed warm enough.
'No,' replied I, 'but I want to see you comfortable before I go.'
'Me comfortable!' repeated she, with a bitter laugh, as if there
were something amusingly absurd in the idea.  'It suits me better
as it is,' she added, in a tone of mournful resignation.
But determined to have my own way, I pulled the bell.
'There now, Helen!' I said, as the approaching steps of Rachel were
heard in answer to the summons.  There was nothing for it but to
turn round and desire the maid to light the fire.
I owe Rachel a grudge to this day for the look she cast upon me ere
she departed on her mission, the sour, suspicious, inquisitorial
look that plainly demanded, 'What are you here for, I wonder?'  Her
mistress did not fail to notice it, and a shade of uneasiness
darkened her brow.
'You must not stay long, Gilbert,' said she, when the door was
closed upon us.
'I'm not going to,' said I, somewhat testily, though without a
grain of anger in my heart against any one but the meddling old
woman.  'But, Helen, I've something to say to you before I go.'
'What is it?'
'No, not now - I don't know yet precisely what it is, or how to say
it,' replied I, with more truth than wisdom; and then, fearing lest
she should turn me out of the house, I began talking about
indifferent matters in order to gain time.  Meanwhile Rachel came
in to kindle the fire, which was soon effected by thrusting a red-
hot poker between the bars of the grate, where the fuel was already
disposed for ignition.  She honoured me with another of her hard,
inhospitable looks in departing, but, little moved thereby, I went
on talking; and setting a chair for Mrs. Graham on one side of the
hearth, and one for myself on the other, I ventured to sit down,
though half suspecting she would rather see me go.
In a little while we both relapsed into silence, and continued for
several minutes gazing abstractedly into the fire - she intent upon
her own sad thoughts, and I reflecting how delightful it would be
to be seated thus beside her with no other presence to restrain our
intercourse - not even that of Arthur, our mutual friend, without
whom we had never met before - if only I could venture to speak my
mind, and disburden my full heart of the feelings that had so long
oppressed it, and which it now struggled to retain, with an effort
that it seemed impossible to continue much longer, - and revolving
the pros and cons for opening my heart to her there and then, and
imploring a return of affection, the permission to regard her
thenceforth as my own, and the right and the power to defend her
from the calumnies of malicious tongues.  On the one hand, I felt a
new-born confidence in my powers of persuasion - a strong
conviction that my own fervour of spirit would grant me eloquence -
that my very determination - the absolute necessity for succeeding,
that I felt must win me what I sought; while, on the other, I
feared to lose the ground I had already gained with so much toil
and skill, and destroy all future hope by one rash effort, when
time and patience might have won success.  It was like setting my
life upon the cast of a die; and yet I was ready to resolve upon
the attempt.  At any rate, I would entreat the explanation she had
half promised to give me before; I would demand the reason of this
hateful barrier, this mysterious impediment to my happiness, and,
as I trusted, to her own.
But while I considered in what manner I could best frame my
request, my companion, wakened from her reverie with a scarcely
audible sigh, and looking towards the window, where the blood-red
harvest moon, just rising over one of the grim, fantastic
evergreens, was shining in upon us, said, - 'Gilbert, it is getting
late.'
'I see,' said I.  'You want me to go, I suppose?'
'I think you ought.  If my kind neighbours get to know of this
visit - as no doubt they will - they will not turn it much to my
advantage.'
