
'No, no, no,' she earnestly repeated - 'I wish it were so!  Thank
heaven!' she added, 'I have no great crime to confess; but I have
more than you will like to hear, or, perhaps, can readily excuse, -
and more than I can tell you now; so let me entreat you to leave
me!'
'I will; but answer me this one question first; - do you love me?'
'I will not answer it!'
'Then I will conclude you do; and so good-night.'
She turned from me to hide the emotion she could not quite control;
but I took her hand and fervently kissed it.
'Gilbert, do leave me!' she cried, in a tone of such thrilling
anguish that I felt it would be cruel to disobey.
But I gave one look back before I closed the door, and saw her
leaning forward on the table, with her hands pressed against her
eyes, sobbing convulsively; yet I withdrew in silence.  I felt that
to obtrude my consolations on her then would only serve to
aggravate her sufferings.
To tell you all the questionings and conjectures - the fears, and
hopes, and wild emotions that jostled and chased each other through
my mind as I descended the hill, would almost fill a volume in
itself.  But before I was half-way down, a sentiment of strong
sympathy for her I had left behind me had displaced all other
feelings, and seemed imperatively to draw me back:  I began to
think, 'Why am I hurrying so fast in this direction?  Can I find
comfort or consolation - peace, certainty, contentment, all - or
anything that I want at home? and can I leave all perturbation,
sorrow, and anxiety behind me there?'
And I turned round to look at the old Hall.  There was little
besides the chimneys visible above my contracted horizon.  I walked
back to get a better view of it.  When it rose in sight, I stood
still a moment to look, and then continued moving towards the
gloomy object of attraction.  Something called me nearer - nearer
still - and why not, pray?  Might I not find more benefit in the
contemplation of that venerable pile with the full moon in the
cloudless heaven shining so calmly above it - with that warm yellow
lustre peculiar to an August night - and the mistress of my soul
within, than in returning to my home, where all comparatively was
light, and life, and cheerfulness, and therefore inimical to me in
my present frame of mind, - and the more so that its inmates all
were more or less imbued with that detestable belief, the very
thought of which made my blood boil in my veins - and how could I
endure to hear it openly declared, or cautiously insinuated - which
was worse? - I had had trouble enough already, with some babbling
fiend that would keep whispering in my ear, 'It may be true,' till
I had shouted aloud, 'It is false!  I defy you to make me suppose
it!'
I could see the red firelight dimly gleaming from her parlour
window.  I went up to the garden wall, and stood leaning over it,
with my eyes fixed upon the lattice, wondering what she was doing,
thinking, or suffering now, and wishing I could speak to her but
one word, or even catch one glimpse of her, before I went.
I had not thus looked, and wished, and wondered long, before I
vaulted over the barrier, unable to resist the temptation of taking
one glance through the window, just to if she were more composed
than when we parted; - and if I found her still in deep distress,
perhaps I might venture attempt a word of comfort - to utter one of
the many things I should have said before, instead of aggravating
her sufferings by my stupid impetuosity.  I looked.  Her chair was
vacant:  so was the room.  But at that moment some one opened the
outer door, and a voice - her voice - said, - 'Come out - I want to
see the moon, and breathe the evening air:  they will do me good -
if anything will.'
Here, then, were she and Rachel coming to take a walk in the
garden.  I wished myself safe back over the wall.  I stood,
however, in the shadow of the tall holly-bush, which, standing
between the window and the porch, at present screened me from
observation, but did not prevent me from seeing two figures come
forth into the moonlight:  Mrs. Graham followed by another - not
Rachel, but a young man, slender and rather tall.  O heavens, how
my temples throbbed!  Intense anxiety darkened my sight; but I
thought - yes, and the voice confirmed it - it was Mr. Lawrence!
'You should not let it worry you so much, Helen,' said he; 'I will
be more cautious in future; and in time - '
I did not hear the rest of the sentence; for he walked close beside
her and spoke so gently that I could not catch the words.  My heart
was splitting with hatred; but I listened intently for her reply.
I heard it plainly enough.
'But I must leave this place, Frederick,' she said - 'I never can
be happy here, - nor anywhere else, indeed,' she added, with a
mirthless laugh, - 'but I cannot rest here.'
'But where could you find a better place?' replied he, 'so secluded
- so near me, if you think anything of that.'
'Yes,' interrupted she, 'it is all I could wish, if they could only
have left me alone.'
'But wherever you go, Helen, there will be the same sources of
annoyance.  I cannot consent to lose you:  I must go with you, or
come to you; and there are meddling fools elsewhere, as well as
here.'
While thus conversing they had sauntered slowly past me, down the
walk, and I heard no more of their discourse; but I saw him put his
arm round her waist, while she lovingly rested her hand on his
shoulder; - and then, a tremulous darkness obscured my sight, my
heart sickened and my head burned like fire:  I half rushed, half
staggered from the spot, where horror had kept me rooted, and
leaped or tumbled over the wall - I hardly know which - but I know
that, afterwards, like a passionate child, I dashed myself on the
ground and lay there in a paroxysm of anger and despair - how long,
I cannot undertake to say; but it must have been a considerable
time; for when, having partially relieved myself by a torment of
tears, and looked up at the moon, shining so calmly and carelessly
on, as little influenced by my misery as I was by its peaceful
radiance, and earnestly prayed for death or forgetfulness, I had
risen and journeyed homewards - little regarding the way, but
carried instinctively by my feet to the door, I found it bolted
against me, and every one in bed except my mother, who hastened to
answer my impatient knocking, and received me with a shower of
questions and rebukes.
'Oh, Gilbert! how could you do so?  Where have you been?  Do come
in and take your supper.  I've got it all ready, though you don't
deserve it, for keeping me in such a fright, after the strange
manner you left the house this evening.  Mr. Millward was quite -
Bless the boy! how ill he looks.  Oh, gracious! what is the
matter?'
'Nothing, nothing - give me a candle.'
'But won't you take some supper?'
'No; I want to go to bed,' said I, taking a candle and lighting it
at the one she held in her hand.
'Oh, Gilbert, how you tremble!' exclaimed my anxious parent.  'How
white you look!  Do tell me what it is?  Has anything happened?'
'It's nothing,' cried I, ready to stamp with vexation because the
candle would not light.  Then, suppressing my irritation, I added,
'I've been walking too fast, that's all.  Good-night,' and marched
off to bed, regardless of the 'Walking too fast! where have you
been?' that was called after me from below.
