
'I believe it is natural for our unamiable sex to dislike the
creatures,' replied I; 'for you ladies lavish so many caresses upon
them.'
'Bless them - little darlings!' cried she, in a sudden burst of
enthusiasm, turning round and overwhelming her sister's pet with a
shower of kisses.
'Don't, Eliza!' said Miss Millward, somewhat gruffly, as she
impatiently pushed her away.
But it was time for me to be going:  make what haste I would, I
should still be too late for tea; and my mother was the soul of
order and punctuality.
My fair friend was evidently unwilling to bid me adieu.  I tenderly
squeezed her little hand at parting; and she repaid me with one of
her softest smiles and most bewitching glances.  I went home very
happy, with a heart brimful of complacency for myself, and
overflowing with love for Eliza.
CHAPTER III
Two days after, Mrs. Graham called at Linden-Car, contrary to the
expectation of Rose, who entertained an idea that the mysterious
occupant of Wildfell Hall would wholly disregard the common
observances of civilized life, - in which opinion she was supported
by the Wilsons, who testified that neither their call nor the
Millwards' had been returned as yet.  Now, however, the cause of
that omission was explained, though not entirely to the
satisfaction of Rose.  Mrs. Graham had brought her child with her,
and on my mother's expressing surprise that he could walk so far,
she replied, - 'It is a long walk for him; but I must have either
taken him with me, or relinquished the visit altogether; for I
never leave him alone; and I think, Mrs. Markham, I must beg you to
make my excuses to the Millwards and Mrs. Wilson, when you see
them, as I fear I cannot do myself the pleasure of calling upon
them till my little Arthur is able to accompany me.'
'But you have a servant,' said Rose; 'could you not leave him with
her?'
'She has her own occupations to attend to; and besides, she is too
old to run after a child, and he is too mercurial to be tied to an
elderly woman.'
'But you left him to come to church.'
'Yes, once; but I would not have left him for any other purpose;
and I think, in future, I must contrive to bring him with me, or
stay at home.'
'Is he so mischievous?' asked my mother, considerably shocked.
'No,' replied the lady, sadly smiling, as she stroked the wavy
locks of her son, who was seated on a low stool at her feet; 'but
he is my only treasure, and I am his only friend:  so we don't like
to be separated.'
'But, my dear, I call that doting,' said my plain-spoken parent.
'You should try to suppress such foolish fondness, as well to save
your son from ruin as yourself from ridicule.'
'Ruin!  Mrs. Markham!'
'Yes; it is spoiling the child.  Even at his age, he ought not to
be always tied to his mother's apron-string; he should learn to be
ashamed of it.'
'Mrs. Markham, I beg you will not say such things, in his presence,
at least.  I trust my son will never be ashamed to love his
mother!' said Mrs. Graham, with a serious energy that startled the
company.
My mother attempted to appease her by an explanation; but she
seemed to think enough had been said on the subject, and abruptly
turned the conversation.
'Just as I thought,' said I to myself:  'the lady's temper is none
of the mildest, notwithstanding her sweet, pale face and lofty
brow, where thought and suffering seem equally to have stamped
their impress.'
All this time I was seated at a table on the other side of the
room, apparently immersed in the perusal of a volume of the
FARMER'S MAGAZINE, which I happened to have been reading at the
moment of our visitor's arrival; and, not choosing to be over
civil, I had merely bowed as she entered, and continued my
occupation as before.
In a little while, however, I was sensible that some one was
approaching me, with a light, but slow and hesitating tread.  It
was little Arthur, irresistibly attracted by my dog Sancho, that
was lying at my feet.  On looking up I beheld him standing about
two yards off, with his clear blue eyes wistfully gazing on the
dog, transfixed to the spot, not by fear of the animal, but by a
timid disinclination to approach its master.  A little
encouragement, however, induced him to come forward.  The child,
though shy, was not sullen.  In a minute he was kneeling on the
carpet, with his arms round Sancho's neck, and, in a minute or two
more, the little fellow was seated on my knee, surveying with eager
interest the various specimens of horses, cattle, pigs, and model
farms portrayed in the volume before me.  I glanced at his mother
now and then to see how she relished the new-sprung intimacy; and I
saw, by the unquiet aspect of her eye, that for some reason or
other she was uneasy at the child's position.
