
'At any rate,' said my mother, 'you will call to-morrow.  Whether
it be true or false, exaggerated or otherwise, we shall like to
know how he is.'
'Fergus may go.'
'Why not you?'
'He has more time.  I am busy just now.'
'Oh! but, Gilbert, how can you be so composed about it?  You won't
mind business for an hour or two in a case of this sort, when your
friend is at the point of death.'
'He is not, I tell you.'
'For anything you know, he may be:  you can't tell till you have
seen him.  At all events, he must have met with some terrible
accident, and you ought to see him:  he'll take it very unkind if
you don't.'
'Confound it!  I can't.  He and I have not been on good terms of
late.'
'Oh, my dear boy!  Surely, surely you are not so unforgiving as to
carry your little differences to such a length as - '
'Little differences, indeed!' I muttered.
'Well, but only remember the occasion.  Think how - '
'Well, well, don't bother me now - I'll see about it,' I replied.
And my seeing about it was to send Fergus next morning, with my
mother's compliments, to make the requisite inquiries; for, of
course, my going was out of the question - or sending a message
either.  He brought back intelligence that the young squire was
laid up with the complicated evils of a broken head and certain
contusions (occasioned by a fall - of which he did not trouble
himself to relate the particulars - and the subsequent misconduct
of his horse), and a severe cold, the consequence of lying on the
wet ground in the rain; but there were no broken bones, and no
immediate prospects of dissolution.
It was evident, then, that for Mrs. Graham's sake it was not his
intention to criminate me.
CHAPTER XV
That day was rainy like its predecessor; but towards evening it
began to clear up a little, and the next morning was fair and
promising.  I was out on the hill with the reapers.  A light wind
swept over the corn, and all nature laughed in the sunshine.  The
lark was rejoicing among the silvery floating clouds.  The late
rain had so sweetly freshened and cleared the air, and washed the
sky, and left such glittering gems on branch and blade, that not
even the farmers could have the heart to blame it.  But no ray of
sunshine could reach my heart, no breeze could freshen it; nothing
could fill the void my faith, and hope, and joy in Helen Graham had
left, or drive away the keen regrets and bitter dregs of lingering
love that still oppressed it.
While I stood with folded arms abstractedly gazing on the
undulating swell of the corn, not yet disturbed by the reapers,
something gently pulled my skirts, and a small voice, no longer
welcome to my ears, aroused me with the startling words, - 'Mr.
Markham, mamma wants you.'
'Wants me, Arthur?'
'Yes.  Why do you look so queer?' said he, half laughing, half
frightened at the unexpected aspect of my face in suddenly turning
towards him, - 'and why have you kept so long away?  Come!  Won't
you come?'
'I'm busy just now,' I replied, scarce knowing what to answer.
He looked up in childish bewilderment; but before I could speak
again the lady herself was at my side.
