
'Gilbert, I must speak with you!' said she, in a tone of suppressed
vehemence.
I looked at her pale cheek and glittering eye, but answered
nothing.
'Only for a moment,' pleaded she.  'Just step aside into this other
field.'  She glanced at the reapers, some of whom were directing
looks of impertinent curiosity towards her.  'I won't keep you a
minute.'
I accompanied her through the gap.
'Arthur, darling, run and gather those bluebells,' said she,
pointing to some that were gleaming at some distance under the
hedge along which we walked.  The child hesitated, as if unwilling
to quit my side.  'Go, love!' repeated she more urgently, and in a
tone which, though not unkind, demanded prompt obedience, and
obtained it.
'Well, Mrs. Graham?' said I, calmly and coldly; for, though I saw
she was miserable, and pitied her, I felt glad to have it in my
power to torment her.
She fixed her eyes upon me with a look that pierced me to the
heart; and yet it made me smile.
'I don't ask the reason of this change, Gilbert,' said she, with
bitter calmness:  'I know it too well; but though I could see
myself suspected and condemned by every one else, and bear it with
calmness, I cannot endure it from you. - Why did you not come to
hear my explanation on the day I appointed to give it?'
'Because I happened, in the interim, to learn all you would have
told me - and a trifle more, I imagine.'
'Impossible, for I would have told you all!' cried she,
passionately - 'but I won't now, for I see you are not worthy of
it!'
And her pale lips quivered with agitation.
'Why not, may I ask?'
She repelled my mocking smile with a glance of scornful
indignation.
'Because you never understood me, or you would not soon have
listened to my traducers - my confidence would be misplaced in you
- you are not the man I thought you.  Go!  I won't care what you
think of me.'
She turned away, and I went; for I thought that would torment her
as much as anything; and I believe I was right; for, looking back a
minute after, I saw her turn half round, as if hoping or expecting
to find me still beside her; and then she stood still, and cast one
look behind.  It was a look less expressive of anger than of bitter
anguish and despair; but I immediately assumed an aspect of
indifference, and affected to be gazing carelessly around me, and I
suppose she went on; for after lingering awhile to see if she would
come back or call, I ventured one more glance, and saw her a good
way off, moving rapidly up the field, with little Arthur running by
her side and apparently talking as he went; but she kept her face
averted from him, as if to hide some uncontrollable emotion.  And I
returned to my business.
But I soon began to regret my precipitancy in leaving her so soon.
It was evident she loved me - probably she was tired of Mr.
Lawrence, and wished to exchange him for me; and if I had loved and
reverenced her less to begin with, the preference might have
gratified and amused me; but now the contrast between her outward
seeming and her inward mind, as I supposed, - between my former and
my present opinion of her, was so harrowing - so distressing to my
feelings, that it swallowed up every lighter consideration.
But still I was curious to know what sort of an explanation she
would have given me - or would give now, if I pressed her for it -
how much she would confess, and how she would endeavour to excuse
herself.  I longed to know what to despise, and what to admire in
her; how much to pity, and how much to hate; - and, what was more,
I would know.  I would see her once more, and fairly satisfy myself
in what light to regard her, before we parted.  Lost to me she was,
for ever, of course; but still I could not bear to think that we
had parted, for the last time, with so much unkindness and misery
on both sides.  That last look of hers had sunk into my heart; I
could not forget it.  But what a fool I was!  Had she not deceived
me, injured me - blighted my happiness for life?  'Well, I'll see
her, however,' was my concluding resolve, 'but not to-day:  to-day
and to-night she may think upon her sins, and be as miserable as
she will:  to-morrow I will see her once again, and know something
more about her.  The interview may be serviceable to her, or it may
not.  At any rate, it will give a breath of excitement to the life
she has doomed to stagnation, and may calm with certainty some
agitating thoughts.'
I did go on the morrow, but not till towards evening, after the
business of the day was concluded, that is, between six and seven;
and the westering sun was gleaming redly on the old Hall, and
flaming in the latticed windows, as I reached it, imparting to the
place a cheerfulness not its own.  I need not dilate upon the
feelings with which I approached the shrine of my former divinity -
that spot teeming with a thousand delightful recollections and
glorious dreams - all darkened now by one disastrous truth
Rachel admitted me into the parlour, and went to call her mistress,
for she was not there:  but there was her desk left open on the
little round table beside the high-backed chair, with a book laid
upon it.  Her limited but choice collection of books was almost as
familiar to me as my own; but this volume I had not seen before.  I
took it up.  It was Sir Humphry Davy's 'Last Days of a
Philosopher,' and on the first leaf was written, 'Frederick
Lawrence.'  I closed the book, but kept it in my hand, and stood
facing the door, with my back to the fire-place, calmly waiting her
arrival; for I did not doubt she would come.  And soon I heard her
step in the hall.  My heart was beginning to throb, but I checked
it with an internal rebuke, and maintained my composure - outwardly
at least.  She entered, calm, pale, collected.
'To what am I indebted for this favour, Mr. Markham?' said she,
with such severe but quiet dignity as almost disconcerted me; but I
answered with a smile, and impudently enough, -
'Well, I am come to hear your explanation.'
'I told you I would not give it,' said she.  'I said you were
unworthy of my confidence.'
'Oh, very well,' replied I, moving to the door.
'Stay a moment,' said she.  'This is the last time I shall see you:
don't go just yet.'
I remained, awaiting her further commands.
