
'Tell me,' resumed she, 'on what grounds you believe these things
against me; who told you; and what did they say?'
I paused a moment.  She met my eye as unflinchingly as if her bosom
had been steeled with conscious innocence.  She was resolved to
know the worst, and determined to dare it too.  'I can crush that
bold spirit,' thought I.  But while I secretly exulted in my power,
I felt disposed to dally with my victim like a cat.  Showing her
the book that I still held, in my hand, and pointing to the name on
the fly-leaf, but fixing my eye upon her face, I asked, - 'Do you
know that gentleman?'
'Of course I do,' replied she; and a sudden flush suffused her
features - whether of shame or anger I could not tell:  it rather
resembled the latter.  'What next, sir?'
'How long is it since you saw him?'
'Who gave you the right to catechize me on this or any other
subject?'
'Oh, no one! - it's quite at your option whether to answer or not.
And now, let me ask - have you heard what has lately befallen this
friend of yours? - because, if you have not - '
'I will not be insulted, Mr. Markham!' cried she, almost infuriated
at my manner.  'So you had better leave the house at once, if you
came only for that.'
'I did not come to insult you:  I came to hear your explanation.'
'And I tell you I won't give it!' retorted she, pacing the room in
a state of strong excitement, with her hands clasped tightly
together, breathing short, and flashing fires of indignation from
her eyes.  'I will not condescend to explain myself to one that can
make a jest of such horrible suspicions, and be so easily led to
entertain them.'
'I do not make a jest of them, Mrs. Graham,' returned I, dropping
at once my tone of taunting sarcasm.  'I heartily wish I could find
them a jesting matter.  And as to being easily led to suspect, God
only knows what a blind, incredulous fool I have hitherto been,
perseveringly shutting my eyes and stopping my ears against
everything that threatened to shake my confidence in you, till
proof itself confounded my infatuation!'
'What proof, sir?'
'Well, I'll tell you.  You remember that evening when I was here
last?'
'I do.'
'Even then you dropped some hints that might have opened the eyes
of a wiser man; but they had no such effect upon me:  I went on
trusting and believing, hoping against hope, and adoring where I
could not comprehend.  It so happened, however, that after I left
you I turned back - drawn by pure depth of sympathy and ardour of
affection - not daring to intrude my presence openly upon you, but
unable to resist the temptation of catching one glimpse through the
window, just to see how you were:  for I had left you apparently in
great affliction, and I partly blamed my own want of forbearance
and discretion as the cause of it.  If I did wrong, love alone was
my incentive, and the punishment was severe enough; for it was just
as I had reached that tree, that you came out into the garden with
your friend.  Not choosing to show myself, under the circumstances,
I stood still, in the shadow, till you had both passed by.'
'And how much of our conversation did you hear?'
'I heard quite enough, Helen.  And it was well for me that I did
hear it; for nothing less could have cured my infatuation.  I
always said and thought, that I would never believe a word against
you, unless I heard it from your own lips.  All the hints and
affirmations of others I treated as malignant, baseless slanders;
your own self-accusations I believed to be overstrained; and all
that seemed unaccountable in your position I trusted that you could
account for if you chose.'
Mrs. Graham had discontinued her walk.  She leant against one end
of the chimney-piece, opposite that near which I was standing, with
her chin resting on her closed hand, her eyes - no longer burning
with anger, but gleaming with restless excitement - sometimes
glancing at me while I spoke, then coursing the opposite wall, or
fixed upon the carpet.
'You should have come to me after all,' said she, 'and heard what I
had to say in my own justification.  It was ungenerous and wrong to
withdraw yourself so secretly and suddenly, immediately after such
ardent protestations of attachment, without ever assigning a reason
for the change.  You should have told me all-no matter how
bitterly.  It would have been better than this silence.'
'To what end should I have done so?  You could not have enlightened
me further, on the subject which alone concerned me; nor could you
have made me discredit the evidence of my senses.  I desired our
intimacy to be discontinued at once, as you yourself had
acknowledged would probably be the case if I knew all; but I did
not wish to upbraid you, - though (as you also acknowledged) you
had deeply wronged me.  Yes, you have done me an injury you can
never repair - or any other either - you have blighted the
freshness and promise of youth, and made my life a wilderness!  I
might live a hundred years, but I could never recover from the
effects of this withering blow - and never forget it!  Hereafter -
You smile, Mrs. Graham,' said I, suddenly stopping short, checked
in my passionate declamation by unutterable feelings to behold her
actually smiling at the picture of the ruin she had wrought.
'Did I?' replied she, looking seriously up; 'I was not aware of it.
If I did, it was not for pleasure at the thoughts of the harm I had
done you.  Heaven knows I have had torment enough at the bare
possibility of that; it was for joy to find that you had some depth
of soul and feeling after all, and to hope that I had not been
utterly mistaken in your worth.  But smiles and tears are so alike
with me, they are neither of them confined to any particular
feelings:  I often cry when I am happy, and smile when I am sad.'
She looked at me again, and seemed to expect a reply; but I
continued silent.
'Would you be very glad,' resumed she, 'to find that you were
mistaken in your conclusions?'
'How can you ask it, Helen?'
'I don't say I can clear myself altogether,' said she, speaking low
and fast, while her heart beat visibly and her bosom heaved with
excitement, - 'but would you be glad to discover I was better than
you think me?'
'Anything that could in the least degree tend to restore my former
opinion of you, to excuse the regard I still feel for you, and
alleviate the pangs of unutterable regret that accompany it, would
be only too gladly, too eagerly received!'  Her cheeks burned, and
her whole frame trembled, now, with excess of agitation.  She did
not speak, but flew to her desk, and snatching thence what seemed a
thick album or manuscript volume, hastily tore away a few leaves
from the end, and thrust the rest into my hand, saying, 'You
needn't read it all; but take it home with you,' and hurried from
the room.  But when I had left the house, and was proceeding down
the walk, she opened the window and called me back.  It was only to
say, - 'Bring it back when you have read it; and don't breathe a
word of what it tells you to any living being.  I trust to your
honour.'
