
'I wonder what the deuce the lad means by coming so often,' he
would say, - 'can you tell, Helen? - Hey?  He wants none o' my
company, nor I his - that's certain.'
'I wish you'd tell him so, then,' said my aunt.
'Why, what for?  If I don't want him, somebody does, mayhap'
(winking at me).  'Besides, he's a pretty tidy fortune, Peggy, you
know - not such a catch as Wilmot; but then Helen won't hear of
that match:  for, somehow, these old chaps don't go down with the
girls - with all their money, and their experience to boot.  I'll
bet anything she'd rather have this young fellow without a penny,
than Wilmot with his house full of gold.  Wouldn't you, Nell?'
'Yes, uncle; but that's not saying much for Mr. Huntingdon; for I'd
rather be an old maid and a pauper than Mrs. Wilmot.'
'And Mrs. Huntingdon?  What would you rather be than Mrs.
Huntingdon - eh?'
'I'll tell you when I've considered the matter.'
'Ah! it needs consideration, then?  But come, now - would you
rather be an old maid - let alone the pauper?'
'I can't tell till I'm asked.'
And I left the room immediately, to escape further examination.
But five minutes after, in looking from my window, I beheld Mr.
Boarham coming up to the door.  I waited nearly half-an-hour in
uncomfortable suspense, expecting every minute to be called, and
vainly longing to hear him go.  Then footsteps were heard on the
stairs, and my aunt entered the room with a solemn countenance, and
closed the door behind her.
'Here is Mr. Boarham, Helen,' said she.  'He wishes to see you.'
'Oh, aunt! - Can't you tell him I'm indisposed? - I'm sure I am -
to see him.'
'Nonsense, my dear! this is no trifling matter.  He is come on a
very important errand - to ask your hand in marriage of your uncle
and me.'
'I hope my uncle and you told him it was not in your power to give
it.  What right had he to ask any one before me?'
'Helen!'
'What did my uncle say?'
'He said he would not interfere in the matter; if you liked to
accept Mr. Boarham's obliging offer, you - '
'Did he say obliging offer?'
'No; he said if you liked to take him you might; and if not, you
might please yourself.'
'He said right; and what did you say?'
'It is no matter what I said.  What will you say? - that is the
question.  He is now waiting to ask you himself; but consider well
before you go; and if you intend to refuse him, give me your
reasons.'
'I shall refuse him, of course; but you must tell me how, for I
want to be civil and yet decided - and when I've got rid of him,
I'll give you my reasons afterwards.'
'But stay, Helen; sit down a little and compose yourself.  Mr.
Boarham is in no particular hurry, for he has little doubt of your
acceptance; and I want to speak with you.  Tell me, my dear, what
are your objections to him?  Do you deny that he is an upright,
honourable man?'
'No.'
'Do you deny that he is sensible, sober, respectable?'
'No; he may be all this, but - '
