
'But what are your sentiments towards me?  Helen - Speak!  How do
you regard me?'
And again he pressed my hand; but I feared there was more of
conscious power than tenderness in his demeanour, and I felt he had
no right to extort a confession of attachment from me when he had
made no correspondent avowal himself, and knew not what to answer.
At last I said, - 'How do you regard me?'
'Sweet angel, I adore you!  I - '
'Helen, I want you a moment,' said the distinct, low voice of my
aunt, close beside us.  And I left him, muttering maledictions
against his evil angel.
'Well, aunt, what is it?  What do you want?' said I, following her
to the embrasure of the window.
'I want you to join the company, when you are fit to be seen,'
returned she, severely regarding me; 'but please to stay here a
little, till that shocking colour is somewhat abated, and your eyes
have recovered something of their natural expression.  I should be
ashamed for anyone to see you in your present state.'
Of course, such a remark had no effect in reducing the 'shocking
colour'; on the contrary, I felt my face glow with redoubled fires
kindled by a complication of emotions, of which indignant, swelling
anger was the chief.  I offered no reply, however, but pushed aside
the curtain and looked into the night - or rather into the lamp-lit
square.
'Was Mr. Huntingdon proposing to you, Helen?' inquired my too
watchful relative.
'No.'
'What was he saying then?  I heard something very like it.'
'I don't know what he would have said, if you hadn't interrupted
him.'
'And would you have accepted him, Helen, if he had proposed?'
'Of course not - without consulting uncle and you.'
'Oh!  I'm glad, my dear, you have so much prudence left.  Well,
now,' she added, after a moment's pause, 'you have made yourself
conspicuous enough for one evening.  The ladies are directing
inquiring glances towards us at this moment, I see:  I shall join
them.  Do you come too, when you are sufficiently composed to
appear as usual.'
'I am so now.'
'Speak gently then, and don't look so malicious,' said my calm, but
provoking aunt.  'We shall return home shortly, and then,' she
added with solemn significance, 'I have much to say to you.'
So I went home prepared for a formidable lecture.  Little was said
by either party in the carriage during our short transit homewards;
but when I had entered my room and thrown myself into an easy-
chair, to reflect on the events of the day, my aunt followed me
thither, and having dismissed Rachel, who was carefully stowing
away my ornaments, closed the door; and placing a chair beside me,
or rather at right angles with mine, sat down.  With due deference
I offered her my more commodious seat.  She declined it, and thus
opened the conference:  'Do you remember, Helen, our conversation
the night but one before we left Staningley?'
'Yes, aunt.'
'And do you remember how I warned you against letting your heart be
stolen from you by those unworthy of its possession, and fixing
your affections where approbation did not go before, and where
reason and judgment withheld their sanction?'
'Yes; but my reason - '
'Pardon me - and do you remember assuring me that there was no
occasion for uneasiness on your account; for you should never be
tempted to marry a man who was deficient in sense or principle,
however handsome or charming in other respects he might be, for you
could not love him; you should hate - despise - pity - anything but
love him - were not those your words?'
'Yes; but - '
'And did you not say that your affection must be founded on
approbation; and that, unless you could approve and honour and
respect, you could not love?'
'Yes; but I do approve, and honour, and respect - '
'How so, my dear?  Is Mr. Huntingdon a good man?'
