
'No,' replied I, reddening with confusion and wrath.
But my portfolio was on the table:  he took it up, and coolly sat
down to examine its contents.
'Mr. Huntingdon, those are my unfinished sketches,' cried I, 'and I
never let any one see them.'
And I placed my hand on the portfolio to wrest it from him, but he
maintained his hold, assuring me that he 'liked unfinished sketches
of all things.'
'But I hate them to be seen,' returned I.  'I can't let you have
it, indeed!'
'Let me have its bowels then,' said he; and just as I wrenched the
portfolio from his hand, he deftly abstracted the greater part of
its contents, and after turning them over a moment he cried out, -
'Bless my stars, here's another;' and slipped a small oval of ivory
paper into his waistcoat pocket - a complete miniature portrait
that I had sketched with such tolerable success as to be induced to
colour it with great pains and care.  But I was determined he
should not keep it.
'Mr. Huntingdon,' cried I, 'I insist upon having that back!  It is
mine, and you have no right to take it.  Give it me directly - I'll
never forgive you if you don't!'
But the more vehemently I insisted, the more he aggravated my
distress by his insulting, gleeful laugh.  At length, however, he
restored it to me, saying, - 'Well, well, since you value it so
much, I'll not deprive you of it.'
To show him how I valued it, I tore it in two and threw it into the
fire.  He was not prepared for this.  His merriment suddenly
ceasing, he stared in mute amazement at the consuming treasure; and
then, with a careless 'Humph! I'll go and shoot now,' he turned on
his heel and vacated the apartment by the window as he came, and
setting on his hat with an air, took up his gun and walked away,
whistling as he went - and leaving me not too much agitated to
finish my picture, for I was glad, at the moment, that I had vexed
him.
When I returned to the drawing-room, I found Mr. Boarham had
ventured to follow his comrades to the field; and shortly after
lunch, to which they did not think of returning, I volunteered to
accompany the ladies in a walk, and show Annabella and Milicent the
beauties of the country.  We took a long ramble, and re-entered the
park just as the sportsmen were returning from their expedition.
Toil-spent and travel-stained, the main body of them crossed over
the grass to avoid us, but Mr. Huntingdon, all spattered and
splashed as he was, and stained with the blood of his prey - to the
no small offence of my aunt's strict sense of propriety - came out
of his way to meet us, with cheerful smiles and words for all but
me, and placing himself between Annabella Wilmot and myself, walked
up the road and began to relate the various exploits and disasters
of the day, in a manner that would have convulsed me with laughter
if I had been on good terms with him; but he addressed himself
entirely to Annabella, and I, of course, left all the laughter and
all the badinage to her, and affecting the utmost indifference to
whatever passed between them, walked along a few paces apart, and
looking every way but theirs, while my aunt and Milicent went
before, linked arm in arm and gravely discoursing together.  At
length Mr. Huntingdon turned to me, and addressing me in a
confidential whisper, said, - 'Helen, why did you burn my picture?'
'Because I wished to destroy it,' I answered, with an asperity it
is useless now to lament.
'Oh, very good!' was the reply; 'if you don't value me, I must turn
to somebody that will.'
I thought it was partly in jest - a half-playful mixture of mock
resignation and pretended indifference:  but immediately he resumed
his place beside Miss Wilmot, and from that hour to this - during
all that evening, and all the next day, and the next, and the next,
and all this morning (the 22nd), he has never given me one kind
word or one pleasant look - never spoken to me, but from pure
necessity - never glanced towards me but with a cold, unfriendly
look I thought him quite incapable of assuming.
My aunt observes the change, and though she has not inquired the
cause or made any remark to me on the subject, I see it gives her
pleasure.  Miss Wilmot observes it, too, and triumphantly ascribes
it to her own superior charms and blandishments; but I am truly
miserable - more so than I like to acknowledge to myself.  Pride
refuses to aid me.  It has brought me into the scrape, and will not
help me out of it.
He meant no harm - it was only his joyous, playful spirit; and I,
by my acrimonious resentment - so serious, so disproportioned to
the offence - have so wounded his feelings, so deeply offended him,
that I fear he will never forgive me - and all for a mere jest!  He
thinks I dislike him, and he must continue to think so.  I must
lose him for ever, and Annabella may win him, and triumph as she
will.
But it is not my loss nor her triumph that I deplore so greatly as
the wreck of my fond hopes for his advantage, and her unworthiness
of his affection, and the injury he will do himself by trusting his
happiness to her.  She does not love him:  she thinks only of
herself.  She cannot appreciate the good that is in him:  she will
neither see it, nor value it, nor cherish it.  She will neither
deplore his faults nor attempt their amendment, but rather
aggravate them by her own.  And I doubt whether she will not
deceive him after all.  I see she is playing double between him and
Lord Lowborough, and while she amuses herself with the lively
Huntingdon, she tries her utmost to enslave his moody friend; and
should she succeed in bringing both to her feet, the fascinating
commoner will have but little chance against the lordly peer.  If
he observes her artful by-play, it gives him no uneasiness, but
rather adds new zest to his diversion by opposing a stimulating
check to his otherwise too easy conquest.
Messrs. Wilmot and Boarham have severally taken occasion by his
neglect of me to renew their advances; and if I were like Annabella
and some others I should take advantage of their perseverance to
endeavour to pique him into a revival of affection; but, justice
and honesty apart, I could not bear to do it.  I am annoyed enough
by their present persecutions without encouraging them further; and
even if I did it would have precious little effect upon him.  He
sees me suffering under the condescending attentions and prosaic
discourses of the one, and the repulsive obtrusions of the other,
without so much as a shadow of commiseration for me, or resentment
against my tormentors.  He never could have loved me, or he would
not have resigned me so willingly, and he would not go on talking
to everybody else so cheerfully as he does - laughing and jesting
with Lord Lowborough and my uncle, teasing Milicent Hargrave, and
flirting with Annabella Wilmot - as if nothing were on his mind.
Oh! why can't I hate him?  I must be infatuated, or I should scorn
to regret him as I do.  But I must rally all the powers I have
remaining, and try to tear him from my heart.  There goes the
dinner-bell, and here comes my aunt to scold me for sitting here at
my desk all day, instead of staying with the company:  wish the
company were - gone.
CHAPTER XIX
Twenty Second:  Night. - What have I done? and what will be the end
of it?  I cannot calmly reflect upon it; I cannot sleep.  I must
have recourse to my diary again; I will commit it to paper to-
night, and see what I shall think of it to-morrow.
I went down to dinner resolving to be cheerful and well-conducted,
and kept my resolution very creditably, considering how my head
ached and how internally wretched I felt.  I don't know what is
come over me of late; my very energies, both mental and physical,
must be strangely impaired, or I should not have acted so weakly in
many respects as I have done; but I have not been well this last
day or two.  I suppose it is with sleeping and eating so little,
and thinking so much, and being so continually out of humour.  But
to return.  I was exerting myself to sing and play for the
amusement, and at the request, of my aunt and Milicent, before the
gentlemen came into the drawing-room (Miss Wilmot never likes to
waste her musical efforts on ladies' ears alone).  Milicent had
asked for a little Scotch song, and I was just in the middle of it
when they entered.  The first thing Mr. Huntingdon did was to walk
up to Annabella.
'Now, Miss Wilmot, won't you give us some music to-night?' said he.
'Do now!  I know you will, when I tell you that I have been
hungering and thirsting all day for the sound of your voice.  Come!
the piano's vacant.'
