
'It is this,' resumed he:  'that Annabella Wilmot, in comparison
with you, is like a flaunting peony compared with a sweet, wild
rosebud gemmed with dew - and I love you to distraction! - Now,
tell me if that intelligence gives you any pleasure.  Silence
again?  That means yes.  Then let me add, that I cannot live
without you, and if you answer No to this last question, you will
drive me mad. - Will you bestow yourself upon me? - you will!' he
cried, nearly squeezing me to death in his arms.
'No, no!' I exclaimed, struggling to free myself from him - 'you
must ask my uncle and aunt.'
'They won't refuse me, if you don't.'
'I'm not so sure of that - my aunt dislikes you.'
'But you don't, Helen - say you love me, and I'll go.'
'I wish you would go!' I replied.
'I will, this instant, - if you'll only say you love me.'
'You know I do,' I answered.  And again he caught me in his arms,
and smothered me with kisses.
At that moment my aunt opened wide the door, and stood before us,
candle in hand, in shocked and horrified amazement, gazing
alternately at Mr. Huntingdon and me - for we had both started up,
and now stood wide enough asunder.  But his confusion was only for
a moment.  Rallying in an instant, with the most enviable
assurance, he began, - 'I beg ten thousand pardons, Mrs. Maxwell!
Don't be too severe upon me.  I've been asking your sweet niece to
take me for better, for worse; and she, like a good girl, informs
me she cannot think of it without her uncle's and aunt's consent.
So let me implore you not to condemn me to eternal wretchedness:
if you favour my cause, I am safe; for Mr. Maxwell, I am certain,
can refuse you nothing.'
'We will talk of this to-morrow, sir,' said my aunt, coldly.  'It
is a subject that demands mature and serious deliberation.  At
present, you had better return to the drawing-room.'
'But meantime,' pleaded he, 'let me commend my cause to your most
indulgent - '
'No indulgence for you, Mr. Huntingdon, must come between me and
the consideration of my niece's happiness.'
'Ah, true!  I know she is an angel, and I am a presumptuous dog to
dream of possessing such a treasure; but, nevertheless, I would
sooner die than relinquish her in favour of the best man that ever
went to heaven - and as for her happiness, I would sacrifice my
body and soul - '
'Body and soul, Mr. Huntingdon - sacrifice your soul?'
'Well, I would lay down life - '
'You would not be required to lay it down.'
'I would spend it, then - devote my life - and all its powers to
the promotion and preservation - '
'Another time, sir, we will talk of this - and I should have felt
disposed to judge more favourably of your pretensions, if you too
had chosen another time and place, and let me add - another manner
for your declaration.'
'Why, you see, Mrs. Maxwell,' he began -
'Pardon me, sir,' said she, with dignity - 'The company are
inquiring for you in the other room.'  And she turned to me.
'Then you must plead for me, Helen,' said he, and at length
withdrew.
'You had better retire to your room, Helen,' said my aunt, gravely.
'I will discuss this matter with you, too, to-morrow.'
'Don't be angry, aunt,' said I.
'My dear, I am not angry,' she replied:  'I am surprised.  If it is
true that you told him you could not accept his offer without our
consent - '
'It is true,' interrupted I.
