
'Then how could you permit -?'
'I couldn't help it, aunt,' I cried, bursting into tears.  They
were not altogether the tears of sorrow, or of fear for her
displeasure, but rather the outbreak of the general tumultuous
excitement of my feelings.  But my good aunt was touched at my
agitation.  In a softer tone, she repeated her recommendation to
retire, and, gently kissing my forehead, bade me good-night, and
put her candle in my hand; and I went; but my brain worked so, I
could not think of sleeping.  I feel calmer now that I have written
all this; and I will go to bed, and try to win tired nature's sweet
restorer.
CHAPTER XX
September 24th. - In the morning I rose, light and cheerful - nay,
intensely happy.  The hovering cloud cast over me by my aunt's
views, and by the fear of not obtaining her consent, was lost in
the bright effulgence of my own hopes, and the too delightful
consciousness of requited love.  It was a splendid morning; and I
went out to enjoy it, in a quiet ramble, in company with my own
blissful thoughts.  The dew was on the grass, and ten thousand
gossamers were waving in the breeze; the happy red-breast was
pouring out its little soul in song, and my heart overflowed with
silent hymns of gratitude and praise to heaven.
But I had not wandered far before my solitude was interrupted by
the only person that could have disturbed my musings, at that
moment, without being looked upon as an unwelcome intruder:  Mr.
Huntingdon came suddenly upon me.  So unexpected was the
apparition, that I might have thought it the creation of an over-
excited imagination, had the sense of sight alone borne witness to
his presence; but immediately I felt his strong arm round my waist
and his warm kiss on my cheek, while his keen and gleeful
salutation, 'My own Helen!' was ringing in my ear.
'Not yours yet!' said I, hastily swerving aside from this too
presumptuous greeting.  'Remember my guardians.  You will not
easily obtain my aunt's consent.  Don't you see she is prejudiced
against you?'
'I do, dearest; and you must tell me why, that I may best know how
to combat her objections.  I suppose she thinks I am a prodigal,'
pursued he, observing that I was unwilling to reply, 'and concludes
that I shall have but little worldly goods wherewith to endow my
better half?  If so, you must tell her that my property is mostly
entailed, and I cannot get rid of it.  There may be a few mortgages
on the rest - a few trifling debts and incumbrances here and there,
but nothing to speak of; and though I acknowledge I am not so rich
as I might be - or have been - still, I think, we could manage
pretty comfortably on what's left.  My father, you know, was
something of a miser, and in his latter days especially saw no
pleasure in life but to amass riches; and so it is no wonder that
his son should make it his chief delight to spend them, which was
accordingly the case, until my acquaintance with you, dear Helen,
taught me other views and nobler aims.  And the very idea of having
you to care for under my roof would force me to moderate my
expenses and live like a Christian - not to speak of all the
prudence and virtue you would instil into my mind by your wise
counsels and sweet, attractive goodness.'
'But it is not that,' said I; 'it is not money my aunt thinks
about.  She knows better than to value worldly wealth above its
price.'
'What is it, then?'
'She wishes me to - to marry none but a really good man.'
'What, a man of "decided piety"? - ahem! - Well, come, I'll manage
that too!  It's Sunday to-day, isn't it?  I'll go to church
morning, afternoon, and evening, and comport myself in such a godly
sort that she shall regard me with admiration and sisterly love, as
a brand plucked from the burning.  I'll come home sighing like a
furnace, and full of the savour and unction of dear Mr. Blatant's
discourse - '
'Mr. Leighton,' said I, dryly.
'Is Mr. Leighton a "sweet preacher," Helen - a "dear, delightful,
heavenly-minded man"?'
'He is a good man, Mr. Huntingdon.  I wish I could say half as much
for you.'
'Oh, I forgot, you are a saint, too.  I crave your pardon, dearest
- but don't call me Mr. Huntingdon; my name is Arthur.'
'I'll call you nothing - for I'll have nothing at all to do with
you if you talk in that way any more.  If you really mean to
deceive my aunt as you say, you are very wicked; and if not, you
are very wrong to jest on such a subject.'
'I stand corrected,' said he, concluding his laugh with a sorrowful
sigh.  'Now,' resumed he, after a momentary pause, 'let us talk
about something else.  And come nearer to me, Helen, and take my
arm; and then I'll let you alone.  I can't be quiet while I see you
walking there.'
I complied; but said we must soon return to the house.
'No one will be down to breakfast yet, for long enough,' he
answered.  'You spoke of your guardians just now, Helen, but is not
your father still living?'
'Yes, but I always look upon my uncle and aunt as my guardians, for
they are so in deed, though not in name.  My father has entirely
given me up to their care.  I have never seen him since dear mamma
died, when I was a very little girl, and my aunt, at her request,
offered to take charge of me, and took me away to Staningley, where
I have remained ever since; and I don't think he would object to
anything for me that she thought proper to sanction.'
'But would he sanction anything to which she thought proper to
object?'
