
'I say yes, uncle,' replied I, without a moment's hesitation; for I
had thoroughly made up my mind on the subject.
'Very good!' cried he.  'Now that's a good honest answer -
wonderful for a girl! - Well, I'll write to your father to-morrow.
He's sure to give his consent; so you may look on the matter as
settled.  You'd have done a deal better if you'd taken Wilmot, I
can tell you; but that you won't believe.  At your time of life,
it's love that rules the roast:  at mine, it's solid, serviceable
gold.  I suppose now, you'd never dream of looking into the state
of your husband's finances, or troubling your head about
settlements, or anything of that sort?'
'I don't think I should.'
'Well, be thankful, then, that you've wiser heads to think for you.
I haven't had time, yet, to examine thoroughly into this young
rascal's affairs, but I see that a great part of his father's fine
property has been squandered away; - but still, I think, there's a
pretty fair share of it left, and a little careful nursing may make
a handsome thing of it yet; and then we must persuade your father
to give you a decent fortune, as he has only one besides yourself
to care for; - and, if you behave well, who knows but what I may be
induced to remember you in my will!' continued he, putting his
fingers to his nose, with a knowing wink.
'Thanks, uncle, for that and all your kindness,' replied I.
'Well, and I questioned this young spark on the matter of
settlements,' continued he; 'and he seemed disposed to be generous
enough on that point - '
'I knew he would!' said I.  'But pray don't trouble your head - or
his, or mine about that; for all I have will be his, and all he has
will be mine; and what more could either of us require?'  And I was
about to make my exit, but he called me back.
'Stop, stop!' cried he; 'we haven't mentioned the time yet.  When
must it be?  Your aunt would put it off till the Lord knows when,
but he is anxious to be bound as soon as may be:  he won't hear of
waiting beyond next month; and you, I guess, will be of the same
mind, so - '
'Not at all, uncle; on the contrary, I should like to wait till
after Christmas, at least.'
'Oh! pooh, pooh! never tell me that tale - I know better,' cried
he; and he persisted in his incredulity.  Nevertheless, it is quite
true.  I am in no hurry at all.  How can I be, when I think of the
momentous change that awaits me, and of all I have to leave?  It is
happiness enough to know that we are to be united; and that he
really loves me, and I may love him as devotedly, and think of him
as often as I please.  However, I insisted upon consulting my aunt
about the time of the wedding, for I determined her counsels should
not be utterly disregarded; and no conclusions on that particular
are come to yet.
CHAPTER XXI
October 1st. - All is settled now.  My father has given his
consent, and the time is fixed for Christmas, by a sort of
compromise between the respective advocates for hurry and delay.
Milicent Hargrave is to be one bridesmaid and Annabella Wilmot the
other - not that I am particularly fond of the latter, but she is
an intimate of the family, and I have not another friend.
When I told Milicent of my engagement, she rather provoked me by
her manner of talking it.  After staring a moment in mute surprise,
she said, - 'Well, Helen, I suppose I ought to congratulate you -
and I am glad to see you so happy; but I did not think you would
take him; and I can't help feeling surprised that you should like
him so much.'
'Why so?'
'Because you are so superior to him in every way, and there's
something so bold and reckless about him - so, I don't know how -
but I always feel a wish to get out of his way when I see him
approach.'
'You are timid, Milicent; but that's no fault of his.'
'And then his look,' continued she.  'People say he's handsome, and
of course he is; but I don't like that kind of beauty, and I wonder
that you should.'
'Why so, pray?'
'Well, you know, I think there's nothing noble or lofty in his
appearance.'
'In fact, you wonder that I can like any one so unlike the stilted
heroes of romance.  Well, give me my flesh and blood lover, and
I'll leave all the Sir Herberts and Valentines to you - if you can
find them.'
'I don't want them,' said she.  'I'll be satisfied with flesh and
blood too - only the spirit must shine through and predominate.
But don't you think Mr. Huntingdon's face is too red?'
