
'I'll show you what I can do to-day, however,' said my companion.
'I'll murder your birds by wholesale, just for keeping me away from
better company than either you or them.'
And so saying he departed; and I saw no more of him till dinner.
It seemed a weary time; I wonder what I shall do without him.
It is very true that the three elder gentlemen have proved
themselves much keener sportsmen than the two younger ones; for
both Lord Lowborough and Arthur Huntingdon have of late almost
daily neglected the shooting excursions to accompany us in our
various rides and rambles.  But these merry times are fast drawing
to a close.  In less than a fortnight the party break up, much to
my sorrow, for every day I enjoy it more and more - now that
Messrs. Boarham and Wilmot have ceased to tease me, and my aunt has
ceased to lecture me, and I have ceased to be jealous of Annabella
- and even to dislike her - and now that Mr. Huntingdon is become
my Arthur, and I may enjoy his society without restraint.  What
shall I do without him, I repeat?
CHAPTER XXII
October 5th. - My cup of sweets is not unmingled:  it is dashed
with a bitterness that I cannot hide from myself, disguise it as I
will.  I may try to persuade myself that the sweetness overpowers
it; I may call it a pleasant aromatic flavour; but say what I will,
it is still there, and I cannot but taste it.  I cannot shut my
eyes to Arthur's faults; and the more I love him the more they
trouble me.  His very heart, that I trusted so, is, I fear, less
warm and generous than I thought it.  At least, he gave me a
specimen of his character to-day that seemed to merit a harder name
than thoughtlessness.  He and Lord Lowborough were accompanying
Annabella and me in a long, delightful ride; he was riding by my
side, as usual, and Annabella and Lord Lowborough were a little
before us, the latter bending towards his companion as if in tender
and confidential discourse.
'Those two will get the start of us, Helen, if we don't look
sharp,' observed Huntingdon.  'They'll make a match of it, as sure
as can be.  That Lowborough's fairly besotted.  But he'll find
himself in a fix when he's got her, I doubt.'
'And she'll find herself in a fix when she's got him,' said I, 'if
what I've heard of him is true.'
'Not a bit of it.  She knows what she's about; but he, poor fool,
deludes himself with the notion that she'll make him a good wife,
and because she has amused him with some rodomontade about
despising rank and wealth in matters of love and marriage, he
flatters himself that she's devotedly attached to him; that she
will not refuse him for his poverty, and does not court him for his
rank, but loves him for himself alone.'
'But is not he courting her for her fortune?'
'No, not he.  That was the first attraction, certainly; but now he
has quite lost sight of it:  it never enters his calculations,
except merely as an essential without which, for the lady's own
sake, he could not think of marrying her.  No; he's fairly in love.
He thought he never could be again, but he's in for it once more.
He was to have been married before, some two or three years ago;
but he lost his bride by losing his fortune.  He got into a bad way
among us in London:  he had an unfortunate taste for gambling; and
surely the fellow was born under an unlucky star, for he always
lost thrice where he gained once.  That's a mode of self-torment I
never was much addicted to.  When I spend my money I like to enjoy
the full value of it:  I see no fun in wasting it on thieves and
blacklegs; and as for gaining money, hitherto I have always had
sufficient; it's time enough to be clutching for more, I think,
when you begin to see the end of what you have.  But I have
sometimes frequented the gaming-houses just to watch the on-goings
of those mad votaries of chance - a very interesting study, I
assure you, Helen, and sometimes very diverting:  I've had many a
laugh at the boobies and bedlamites.  Lowborough was quite
infatuated - not willingly, but of necessity, - he was always
resolving to give it up, and always breaking his resolutions.
Every venture was the 'just once more:' if he gained a little, he
hoped to gain a little more next time, and if he lost, it would not
do to leave off at that juncture; he must go on till he had
retrieved that last misfortune, at least:  bad luck could not last
for ever; and every lucky hit was looked upon as the dawn of better
times, till experience proved the contrary.  At length he grew
desperate, and we were daily on the look-out for a case of FELO-DE-
SE - no great matter, some of us whispered, as his existence had
ceased to be an acquisition to our club.  At last, however, he came
to a check.  He made a large stake, which he determined should be
the last, whether he lost or won.  He had often so determined
before, to be sure, and as often broken his determination; and so
it was this time.  He lost; and while his antagonist smilingly
swept away the stakes, he turned chalky white, drew back in
silence, and wiped his forehead.  I was present at the time; and
while he stood with folded arms and eyes fixed on the ground, I
knew well enough what was passing in his mind.
'"Is it to be the last, Lowborough?" said I, stepping up to him.
'"The last but one," he answered, with a grim smile; and then,
rushing back to the table, he struck his hand upon it, and, raising
his voice high above all the confusion of jingling coins and
muttered oaths and curses in the room, he swore a deep and solemn
oath that, come what would, this trial should be the last, and
imprecated unspeakable curses on his head if ever he should shuffle
a card or rattle a dice-box again.  He then doubled his former
stake, and challenged any one present to play against him.  Grimsby
instantly presented himself.  Lowborough glared fiercely at him,
for Grimsby was almost as celebrated for his luck as he was for his
ill-fortune.  However, they fell to work.  But Grimsby had much
skill and little scruple, and whether he took advantage of the
other's trembling, blinded eagerness to deal unfairly by him, I
cannot undertake to say; but Lowborough lost again, and fell dead
sick.
'"You'd better try once more," said Grimsby, leaning across the
table.  And then he winked at me.
'"I've nothing to try with," said the poor devil, with a ghastly
smile.
'"Oh, Huntingdon will lend you what you want," said the other.
'"No; you heard my oath," answered Lowborough, turning away in
quiet despair.  And I took him by the arm and led him out.
'"Is it to be the last, Lowborough?" I asked, when I got him into
the street.
'"The last," he answered, somewhat against my expectation.  And I
took him home - that is, to our club - for he was as submissive as
a child - and plied him with brandy-and-water till he began to look
rather brighter - rather more alive, at least.
'"Huntingdon, I'm ruined!" said he, taking the third glass from my
hand - he had drunk the others in dead silence.
'"Not you," said I.  "You'll find a man can live without his money
as merrily as a tortoise without its head, or a wasp without its
body.
'"But I'm in debt," said he - "deep in debt.  And I can never,
never get out of it."
