
'"Well, what of that?  Many a better man than you has lived and
died in debt; and they can't put you in prison, you know, because
you're a peer."  And I handed him his fourth tumbler.
'"But I hate to be in debt!" he shouted.  "I wasn't born for it,
and I cannot bear it."
'"What can't be cured must be endured," said I, beginning to mix
the fifth.
'"And then, I've lost my Caroline."  And he began to snivel then,
for the brandy had softened his heart.
'"No matter," I answered, "there are more Carolines in the world
than one."
'"There's only one for me," he replied, with a dolorous sigh.  "And
if there were fifty more, who's to get them, I wonder, without
money?"
'"Oh, somebody will take you for your title; and then you've your
family estate yet; that's entailed, you know."
'"I wish to God I could sell it to pay my debts," he muttered.
'"And then," said Grimsby, who had just come in, "you can try
again, you know.  I would have more than one chance, if I were you.
I'd never stop here."
'"I won't, I tell you!" shouted he.  And he started up, and left
the room - walking rather unsteadily, for the liquor had got into
his head.  He was not so much used to it then, but after that he
took to it kindly to solace his cares.
'He kept his oath about gambling (not a little to the surprise of
us all), though Grimsby did his utmost to tempt him to break it,
but now he had got hold of another habit that bothered him nearly
as much, for he soon discovered that the demon of drink was as
black as the demon of play, and nearly as hard to get rid of -
especially as his kind friends did all they could to second the
promptings of his own insatiable cravings.'
'Then, they were demons themselves,' cried I, unable to contain my
indignation.  'And you, Mr. Huntingdon, it seems, were the first to
tempt him.'
'Well, what could we do?' replied he, deprecatingly. - 'We meant it
in kindness - we couldn't bear to see the poor fellow so
miserable:- and besides, he was such a damper upon us, sitting
there silent and glum, when he was under the threefold influence -
of the loss of his sweetheart, the loss of his fortune, and the
reaction of the lost night's debauch; whereas, when he had
something in him, if he was not merry himself, he was an unfailing
source of merriment to us.  Even Grimsby could chuckle over his odd
sayings:  they delighted him far more than my merry jests, or
Hattersley's riotous mirth.  But one evening, when we were sitting
over our wine, after one of our club dinners, and all had been
hearty together, - Lowborough giving us mad toasts, and hearing our
wild songs, and bearing a hand in the applause, if he did not help
us to sing them himself, - he suddenly relapsed into silence,
sinking his head on his hand, and never lifting his glass to his
lips; - but this was nothing new; so we let him alone, and went on
with our jollification, till, suddenly raising his head, he
interrupted us in the middle of a roar of laughter by exclaiming, -
'Gentlemen, where is all this to end? - Will you just tell me that
now? - Where is it all to end?'  He rose.
'"A speech, a speech!" shouted we.  "Hear, hear!  Lowborough's
going to give us a speech!"
'He waited calmly till the thunders of applause and jingling of
glasses had ceased, and then proceeded, - "It's only this,
gentlemen, - that I think we'd better go no further.  We'd better
stop while we can."
'"Just so!" cried Hattersley -
"Stop, poor sinner, stop and think
Before you further go,
No longer sport upon the brink
Of everlasting woe."
'"Exactly!" replied his lordship, with the utmost gravity.  "And if
you choose to visit the bottomless pit, I won't go with you - we
must part company, for I swear I'll not move another step towards
it! - What's this?' he said, taking up his glass of wine.
'"Taste it," suggested I.
'"This is hell broth!" he exclaimed.  "I renounce it for ever!"
And he threw it out into the middle of the table.
'"Fill again!" said I, handing him the bottle - "and let us drink
to your renunciation."
'"It's rank poison," said he, grasping the bottle by the neck, "and
I forswear it!  I've given up gambling, and I'll give up this too."
He was on the point of deliberately pouring the whole contents of
the bottle on to the table, but Hargrave wrested it from him.  "On
you be the curse, then!" said he.  And, backing from the room, he
shouted, "Farewell, ye tempters!" and vanished amid shouts of
laughter and applause.
'We expected him back among us the next day; but, to our surprise,
the place remained vacant:  we saw nothing of him for a whole week;
and we really began to think he was going to keep his word.  At
last, one evening, when we were most of us assembled together
again, he entered, silent and grim as a ghost, and would have
quietly slipped into his usual seat at my elbow, but we all rose to
welcome him, and several voices were raised to ask what he would
have, and several hands were busy with bottle and glass to serve
him; but I knew a smoking tumbler of brandy-and-water would comfort
him best, and had nearly prepared it, when he peevishly pushed it
away, saying, -
