
'"To be sure," said I.
'"And sweetness and goodness enough," he continued, "to make home
tolerable, and to reconcile me to myself, I think I should do yet.
I shall never be in love again, that's certain; but perhaps that
would be no great matter, it would enable me to choose with my eyes
open - and I should make a good husband in spite of it; but could
any one be in love with me? - that's the question.  With your good
looks and powers of fascination" (he was pleased to say), "I might
hope; but as it is, Huntingdon, do you think anybody would take me
- ruined and wretched as I am?"
'"Yes, certainly."
'"Who?"
'"Why, any neglected old maid, fast sinking in despair, would be
delighted to - "
'"No, no," said he - "it must be somebody that I can love."
'"Why, you just said you never could be in love again!'
'"Well, love is not the word - but somebody that I can like.  I'll
search all England through, at all events!" he cried, with a sudden
burst of hope, or desperation.  "Succeed or fail, it will be better
than rushing headlong to destruction at that d-d club:  so farewell
to it and you.  Whenever I meet you on honest ground or under a
Christian roof, I shall be glad to see you; but never more shall
you entice me to that devil's den!"
'This was shameful language, but I shook hands with him, and we
parted.  He kept his word; and from that time forward he has been a
pattern of propriety, as far as I can tell; but till lately I have
not had very much to do with him.  He occasionally sought my
company, but as frequently shrunk from it, fearing lest I should
wile him back to destruction, and I found his not very
entertaining, especially as he sometimes attempted to awaken my
conscience and draw me from the perdition he considered himself to
have escaped; but when I did happen to meet him, I seldom failed to
ask after the progress of his matrimonial efforts and researches,
and, in general, he could give me but a poor account.  The mothers
were repelled by his empty coffers and his reputation for gambling,
and the daughters by his cloudy brow and melancholy temper -
besides, he didn't understand them; he wanted the spirit and
assurance to carry his point.
'I left him at it when I went to the continent; and on my return,
at the year's end, I found him still a disconsolate bachelor -
though, certainly, looking somewhat less like an unblest exile from
the tomb than before.  The young ladies had ceased to be afraid of
him, and were beginning to think him quite interesting; but the
mammas were still unrelenting.  It was about this time, Helen, that
my good angel brought me into conjunction with you; and then I had
eyes and ears for nobody else.  But, meantime, Lowborough became
acquainted with our charming friend, Miss Wilmot - through the
intervention of his good angel, no doubt he would tell you, though
he did not dare to fix his hopes on one so courted and admired,
till after they were brought into closer contact here at
Staningley, and she, in the absence of her other admirers,
indubitably courted his notice and held out every encouragement to
his timid advances.  Then, indeed, he began to hope for a dawn of
brighter days; and if, for a while, I darkened his prospects by
standing between him and his sun - and so nearly plunged him again
into the abyss of despair - it only intensified his ardour and
strengthened his hopes when I chose to abandon the field in the
pursuit of a brighter treasure.  In a word, as I told you, he is
fairly besotted.  At first, he could dimly perceive her faults, and
they gave him considerable uneasiness; but now his passion and her
art together have blinded him to everything but her perfections and
his amazing good fortune.  Last night he came to me brimful of his
new-found felicity:
'"Huntingdon, I am not a castaway!" said he, seizing my hand and
squeezing it like a vice.  "There is happiness in store for me yet
- even in this life - she loves me!"
'"Indeed!" said I.  "Has she told you so?"
'"No, but I can no longer doubt it.  Do you not see how pointedly
kind and affectionate she is?  And she knows the utmost extent of
my poverty, and cares nothing about it!  She knows all the folly
and all the wickedness of my former life, and is not afraid to
trust me - and my rank and title are no allurements to her; for
them she utterly disregards.  She is the most generous, high-minded
being that can be conceived of.  She will save me, body and soul,
from destruction.  Already, she has ennobled me in my own
estimation, and made me three times better, wiser, greater than I
was.  Oh! if I had but known her before, how much degradation and
misery I should have been spared!  But what have I done to deserve
so magnificent a creature?"
'And the cream of the jest,' continued Mr. Huntingdon, laughing,
'is, that the artful minx loves nothing about him but his title and
pedigree, and "that delightful old family seat."'
'How do you know?' said I.
'She told me so herself; she said, "As for the man himself, I
thoroughly despise him; but then, I suppose, it is time to be
making my choice, and if I waited for some one capable of eliciting
my esteem and affection, I should have to pass my life in single
blessedness, for I detest you all!"  Ha, ha!  I suspect she was
wrong there; but, however, it is evident she has no love for him,
poor fellow.'
'Then you ought to tell him so.'
'What! and spoil all her plans and prospects, poor girl?  No, no:
that would be a breach of confidence, wouldn't it, Helen?  Ha, ha!
Besides, it would break his heart.'  And he laughed again.
'Well, Mr. Huntingdon, I don't know what you see so amazingly
diverting in the matter; I see nothing to laugh at.'
'I'm laughing at you, just now, love,' said he, redoubling his
machinations.
And leaving him to enjoy his merriment alone, I touched Ruby with
the whip, and cantered on to rejoin our companions; for we had been
walking our horses all this time, and were consequently a long way
behind.  Arthur was soon at my side again; but not disposed to talk
to him, I broke into a gallop.  He did the same; and we did not
slacken our pace till we came up with Miss Wilmot and Lord
Lowborough, which was within half a mile of the park-gates.  I
avoided all further conversation with him till we came to the end
of our ride, when I meant to jump off my horse and vanish into the
house, before he could offer his assistance; but while I was
disengaging my habit from the crutch, he lifted me off, and held me
by both hands, asserting that he would not let me go till I had
forgiven him.
'I have nothing to forgive,' said I.  'You have not injured me.'
'No, darling - God forbid that I should! but you are angry because
it was to me that Annabella confessed her lack of esteem for her
lover.'
'No, Arthur, it is not that that displeases me:  it is the whole
system of your conduct towards your friend, and if you wish me to
forget it, go now, and tell him what sort of a woman it is that he
adores so madly, and on whom he has hung his hopes of future
happiness.'
'I tell you, Helen, it would break his heart - it would be the
death of him - besides being a scandalous trick to poor Annabella.
There is no help for him now; he is past praying for.  Besides, she
may keep up the deception to the end of the chapter; and then he
will be just as happy in the illusion as if it were reality; or
perhaps he will only discover his mistake when he has ceased to
love her; and if not, it is much better that the truth should dawn
gradually upon him.  So now, my angel, I hope I have made out a
clear case, and fully convinced you that I cannot make the
atonement you require.  What other requisition have you to make?
Speak, and I will gladly obey.'
