
'I have none but this,' said I, as gravely as before:  'that, in
future, you will never make a jest of the sufferings of others, and
always use your influence with your friends for their own advantage
against their evil propensities, instead of seconding their evil
propensities against themselves.'
'I will do my utmost,' said he, 'to remember and perform the
injunctions of my angel monitress;' and after kissing both my
gloved hands, he let me go.
When I entered my room, I was surprised to see Annabella Wilmot
standing before my toilet-table, composedly surveying her features
in the glass, with one hand flirting her gold-mounted whip, and the
other holding up her long habit.
'She certainly is a magnificent creature!' thought I, as I beheld
that tall, finely developed figure, and the reflection of the
handsome face in the mirror before me, with the glossy dark hair,
slightly and not ungracefully disordered by the breezy ride, the
rich brown complexion glowing with exercise, and the black eyes
sparkling with unwonted brilliance.  On perceiving me, she turned
round, exclaiming, with a laugh that savoured more of malice than
of mirth, - 'Why, Helen! what have you been doing so long?  I came
to tell you my good fortune,' she continued, regardless of Rachel's
presence.  'Lord Lowborough has proposed, and I have been
graciously pleased to accept him.  Don't you envy me, dear?'
'No, love,' said I - 'or him either,' I mentally added.  'And do
you like him, Annabella?'
'Like him! yes, to be sure - over head and ears in love!'
'Well, I hope you'll make him a good wife.'
'Thank you, my dear!  And what besides do you hope?'
'I hope you will both love each other, and both be happy.'
'Thanks; and I hope you will make a very good wife to Mr.
Huntingdon!' said she, with a queenly bow, and retired.
'Oh, Miss! how could you say so to her!' cried Rachel.
'Say what?' replied I.
'Why, that you hoped she would make him a good wife.  I never heard
such a thing!'
'Because I do hope it, or rather, I wish it; she's almost past
hope.'
'Well,' said she, 'I'm sure I hope he'll make her a good husband.
They tell queer things about him downstairs.  They were saying - '
'I know, Rachel.  I've heard all about him; but he's reformed now.
And they have no business to tell tales about their masters.'
'No, mum - or else, they have said some things about Mr. Huntingdon
too.'
'I won't hear them, Rachel; they tell lies.'
'Yes, mum,' said she, quietly, as she went on arranging my hair.
'Do you believe them, Rachel?' I asked, after a short pause.
'No, Miss, not all.  You know when a lot of servants gets together
they like to talk about their betters; and some, for a bit of
swagger, likes to make it appear as though they knew more than they
do, and to throw out hints and things just to astonish the others.
But I think, if I was you, Miss Helen, I'd look very well before I
leaped.  I do believe a young lady can't be too careful who she
marries.'
'Of course not,' said I; 'but be quick, will you, Rachel?  I want
to be dressed.'
And, indeed, I was anxious to be rid of the good woman, for I was
in such a melancholy frame I could hardly keep the tears out of my
eyes while she dressed me.  It was not for Lord Lowborough - it was
not for Annabella - it was not for myself - it was for Arthur
Huntingdon that they rose.
* * * * *
13th. - They are gone, and he is gone.  We are to be parted for
more than two months, above ten weeks! a long, long time to live
and not to see him.  But he has promised to write often, and made
me promise to write still oftener, because he will be busy settling
his affairs, and I shall have nothing better to do.  Well, I think
I shall always have plenty to say.  But oh! for the time when we
shall be always together, and can exchange our thoughts without the
intervention of these cold go-betweens, pen, ink, and paper!
