
He laughed incredulously.
'I wish I could convince you of it now!' cried I, starting up from
beside him:  and for the first time in my life, and I hope the
last, I wished I had not married him.
'Helen,' said he, more gravely, 'do you know that if I believed you
now I should be very angry? but thank heaven I don't.  Though you
stand there with your white face and flashing eyes, looking at me
like a very tigress, I know the heart within you perhaps a trifle
better than you know it yourself.'
Without another word I left the room and locked myself up in my own
chamber.  In about half an hour he came to the door, and first he
tried the handle, then he knocked.
'Won't you let me in, Helen?' said he.
'No; you have displeased me,' I replied, 'and I don't want to see
your face or hear your voice again till the morning.'
He paused a moment as if dumfounded or uncertain how to answer such
a speech, and then turned and walked away.  This was only an hour
after dinner:  I knew he would find it very dull to sit alone all
the evening; and this considerably softened my resentment, though
it did not make me relent.  I was determined to show him that my
heart was not his slave, and I could live without him if I chose;
and I sat down and wrote a long letter to my aunt, of course
telling her nothing of all this.  Soon after ten o'clock I heard
him come up again, but he passed my door and went straight to his
own dressing-room, where he shut himself in for the night.
I was rather anxious to see how he would meet me in the morning,
and not a little disappointed to behold him enter the breakfast-
room with a careless smile.
'Are you cross still, Helen?' said he, approaching as if to salute
me.  I coldly turned to the table, and began to pour out the
coffee, observing that he was rather late.
He uttered a low whistle and sauntered away to the window, where he
stood for some minutes looking out upon the pleasing prospect of
sullen grey clouds, streaming rain, soaking lawn, and dripping
leafless trees, and muttering execrations on the weather, and then
sat down to breakfast.  While taking his coffee he muttered it was
'd-d cold.'
'You should not have left it so long,' said I.
He made no answer, and the meal was concluded in silence.  It was a
relief to both when the letter-bag was brought in.  It contained
upon examination a newspaper and one or two letters for him, and a
couple of letters for me, which he tossed across the table without
a remark.  One was from my brother, the other from Milicent
Hargrave, who is now in London with her mother.  His, I think, were
business letters, and apparently not much to his mind, for he
crushed them into his pocket with some muttered expletives that I
should have reproved him for at any other time.  The paper he set
before him, and pretended to be deeply absorbed in its contents
during the remainder of breakfast, and a considerable time after.
The reading and answering of my letters, and the direction of
household concerns, afforded me ample employment for the morning:
after lunch I got my drawing, and from dinner till bed-time I read.
Meanwhile, poor Arthur was sadly at a loss for something to amuse
him or to occupy his time.  He wanted to appear as busy and as
unconcerned as I did.  Had the weather at all permitted, he would
doubtless have ordered his horse and set off to some distant
region, no matter where, immediately after breakfast, and not
returned till night:  had there been a lady anywhere within reach,
of any age between fifteen and forty-five, he would have sought
revenge and found employment in getting up, or trying to get up, a
desperate flirtation with her; but being, to my private
satisfaction, entirely cut off from both these sources of
diversion, his sufferings were truly deplorable.  When he had done
yawning over his paper and scribbling short answers to his shorter
letters, he spent the remainder of the morning and the whole of the
afternoon in fidgeting about from room to room, watching the
clouds, cursing the rain, alternately petting and teasing and
abusing his dogs, sometimes lounging on the sofa with a book that
he could not force himself to read, and very often fixedly gazing
at me when he thought I did not perceive it, with the vain hope of
detecting some traces of tears, or some tokens of remorseful
anguish in my face.  But I managed to preserve an undisturbed
though grave serenity throughout the day.  I was not really angry:
I felt for him all the time, and longed to be reconciled; but I
determined he should make the first advances, or at least show some
signs of an humble and contrite spirit first; for, if I began, it
would only minister to his self-conceit, increase his arrogance,
and quite destroy the lesson I wanted to give him.
He made a long stay in the dining-room after dinner, and, I fear,
took an unusual quantity of wine, but not enough to loosen his
tongue:  for when he came in and found me quietly occupied with my
book, too busy to lift my head on his entrance, he merely murmured
an expression of suppressed disapprobation, and, shutting the door
with a bang, went and stretched himself at full length on the sofa,
and composed himself to sleep.  But his favourite cocker, Dash,
that had been lying at my feet, took the liberty of jumping upon
him and beginning to lick his face.  He struck it off with a smart
blow, and the poor dog squeaked and ran cowering back to me.  When
he woke up, about half an hour after, he called it to him again,
but Dash only looked sheepish and wagged the tip of his tail.  He
called again more sharply, but Dash only clung the closer to me,
and licked my hand, as if imploring protection.  Enraged at this,
his master snatched up a heavy book and hurled it at his head.  The
poor dog set up a piteous outcry, and ran to the door.  I let him
out, and then quietly took up the book.
'Give that book to me,' said Arthur, in no very courteous tone.  I
gave it to him.
'Why did you let the dog out?' he asked; 'you knew I wanted him.'
'By what token?' I replied; 'by your throwing the book at him? but
perhaps it was intended for me?'
'No; but I see you've got a taste of it,' said he, looking at my
hand, that had also been struck, and was rather severely grazed.
I returned to my reading, and he endeavoured to occupy himself in
the same manner; but in a little while, after several portentous
yawns, he pronounced his book to be 'cursed trash,' and threw it on
the table.  Then followed eight or ten minutes of silence, during
the greater part of which, I believe, he was staring at me.  At
last his patience was tired out.
'What is that book, Helen?' he exclaimed.
I told him.
'Is it interesting?'
'Yes, very.'
I went on reading, or pretending to read, at least - I cannot say
there was much communication between my eyes and my brain; for,
while the former ran over the pages, the latter was earnestly
wondering when Arthur would speak next, and what he would say, and
what I should answer.  But he did not speak again till I rose to
make the tea, and then it was only to say he should not take any.
He continued lounging on the sofa, and alternately closing his eyes
and looking at his watch and at me, till bed-time, when I rose, and
took my candle and retired.
'Helen!' cried he, the moment I had left the room.  I turned back,
and stood awaiting his commands.
