
'What do you want, Arthur?' I said at length.
'Nothing,' replied he.  'Go!'
I went, but hearing him mutter something as I was closing the door,
I turned again.  It sounded very like 'confounded slut,' but I was
quite willing it should be something else.
'Were you speaking, Arthur?' I asked.
'No,' was the answer, and I shut the door and departed.  I saw
nothing more of him till the following morning at breakfast, when
he came down a full hour after the usual time.
'You're very late,' was my morning's salutation.
'You needn't have waited for me,' was his; and he walked up to the
window again.  It was just such weather as yesterday.
'Oh, this confounded rain!' he muttered.  But, after studiously
regarding it for a minute or two, a bright idea, seemed to strike
him, for he suddenly exclaimed, 'But I know what I'll do!' and then
returned and took his seat at the table.  The letter-bag was
already there, waiting to be opened.  He unlocked it and examined
the contents, but said nothing about them.
'Is there anything for me?' I asked.
'No.'
He opened the newspaper and began to read.
'You'd better take your coffee,' suggested I; 'it will be cold
again.'
'You may go,' said he, 'if you've done; I don't want you.'
I rose and withdrew to the next room, wondering if we were to have
another such miserable day as yesterday, and wishing intensely for
an end of these mutually inflicted torments.  Shortly after I heard
him ring the bell and give some orders about his wardrobe that
sounded as if he meditated a long journey.  He then sent for the
coachman, and I heard something about the carriage and the horses,
and London, and seven o'clock to-morrow morning, that startled and
disturbed me not a little.
'I must not let him go to London, whatever comes of it,' said I to
myself; 'he will run into all kinds of mischief, and I shall be the
cause of it.  But the question is, How am I to alter his purpose?
Well, I will wait awhile, and see if he mentions it.'
I waited most anxiously, from hour to hour; but not a word was
spoken, on that or any other subject, to me.  He whistled and
talked to his dogs, and wandered from room to room, much the same
as on the previous day.  At last I began to think I must introduce
the subject myself, and was pondering how to bring it about, when
John unwittingly came to my relief with the following message from
the coachman:
'Please, sir, Richard says one of the horses has got a very bad
cold, and he thinks, sir, if you could make it convenient to go the
day after to-morrow, instead of to-morrow, he could physic it to-
day, so as - '
'Confound his impudence!' interjected the master.
'Please, sir, he says it would be a deal better if you could,'
persisted John, 'for he hopes there'll be a change in the weather
shortly, and he says it's not likely, when a horse is so bad with a
cold, and physicked and all - '
'Devil take the horse!' cried the gentleman.  'Well, tell him I'll
think about it,' he added, after a moment's reflection.  He cast a
searching glance at me, as the servant withdrew, expecting to see
some token of deep astonishment and alarm; but, being previously
prepared, I preserved an aspect of stoical indifference.  His
countenance fell as he met my steady gaze, and he turned away in
very obvious disappointment, and walked up to the fire-place, where
he stood in an attitude of undisguised dejection, leaning against
the chimney-piece with his forehead sunk upon his arm.
'Where do you want to go, Arthur?' said I.
'To London,' replied he, gravely.
'What for?' I asked.
'Because I cannot be happy here.'
'Why not?'
