
'Because my wife doesn't love me.'
'She would love you with all her heart, if you deserved it.'
'What must I do to deserve it?'
This seemed humble and earnest enough; and I was so much affected,
between sorrow and joy, that I was obliged to pause a few seconds
before I could steady my voice to reply.
'If she gives you her heart,' said I, 'you must take it,
thankfully, and use it well, and not pull it in pieces, and laugh
in her face, because she cannot snatch it away.'
He now turned round, and stood facing me, with his back to the
fire.  'Come, then, Helen, are you going to be a good girl?' said
he.
This sounded rather too arrogant, and the smile that accompanied it
did not please me.  I therefore hesitated to reply.  Perhaps my
former answer had implied too much:  he had heard my voice falter,
and might have seen me brush away a tear.
'Are you going to forgive me, Helen?' he resumed, more humbly.
'Are you penitent?' I replied, stepping up to him and smiling in
his face.
'Heart-broken!' he answered, with a rueful countenance, yet with a
merry smile just lurking within his eyes and about the corners of
his mouth; but this could not repulse me, and I flew into his arms.
He fervently embraced me, and though I shed a torrent of tears, I
think I never was happier in my life than at that moment.
'Then you won't go to London, Arthur?' I said, when the first
transport of tears and kisses had subsided.
'No, love, - unless you will go with me.'
'I will, gladly,' I answered, 'if you think the change will amuse
you, and if you will put off the journey till next week.'
He readily consented, but said there was no need of much
preparation, as he should not be for staying long, for he did not
wish me to be Londonized, and to lose my country freshness and
originality by too much intercourse with the ladies of the world.
I thought this folly; but I did not wish to contradict him now:  I
merely said that I was of very domestic habits, as he well knew,
and had no particular wish to mingle with the world.
So we are to go to London on Monday, the day after to-morrow.  It
is now four days since the termination of our quarrel, and I am
sure it has done us both good:  it has made me like Arthur a great
deal better, and made him behave a great deal better to me.  He has
never once attempted to annoy me since, by the most distant
allusion to Lady F-, or any of those disagreeable reminiscences of
his former life.  I wish I could blot them from my memory, or else
get him to regard such matters in the same light as I do.  Well! it
is something, however, to have made him see that they are not fit
subjects for a conjugal jest.  He may see further some time.  I
will put no limits to my hopes; and, in spite of my aunt's
forebodings and my own unspoken fears, I trust we shall be happy
yet.
CHAPTER XXV
On the eighth of April we went to London, on the eighth of May I
returned, in obedience to Arthur's wish; very much against my own,
because I left him behind.  If he had come with me, I should have
been very glad to get home again, for he led me such a round of
restless dissipation while there, that, in that short space of
time, I was quite tired out.  He seemed bent upon displaying me to
his friends and acquaintances in particular, and the public in
general, on every possible occasion, and to the greatest possible
advantage.  It was something to feel that he considered me a worthy
object of pride; but I paid dear for the gratification:  for, in
the first place, to please him I had to violate my cherished
predilections, my almost rooted principles in favour of a plain,
dark, sober style of dress - I must sparkle in costly jewels and
deck myself out like a painted butterfly, just as I had, long
since, determined I would never do - and this was no trifling
sacrifice; in the second place, I was continually straining to
satisfy his sanguine expectations and do honour to his choice by my
general conduct and deportment, and fearing to disappoint him by
some awkward misdemeanour, or some trait of inexperienced ignorance
about the customs of society, especially when I acted the part of
hostess, which I was not unfrequently called upon to do; and, in
the third place, as I intimated before, I was wearied of the throng
and bustle, the restless hurry and ceaseless change of a life so
alien to all my previous habits.  At last, he suddenly discovered
that the London air did not agree with me, and I was languishing
for my country home, and must immediately return to Grassdale.
I laughingly assured him that the case was not so urgent as he
appeared to think it, but I was quite willing to go home if he was.
He replied that he should be obliged to remain a week or two
longer, as he had business that required his presence.
'Then I will stay with you,' said I.
'But I can't do with you, Helen,' was his answer:  'as long as you
stay I shall attend to you and neglect my business.'
'But I won't let you,' I returned; 'now that I know you have
business to attend to, I shall insist upon your attending to it,
and letting me alone; and, to tell the truth, I shall be glad of a
little rest.  I can take my rides and walks in the Park as usual;
and your business cannot occupy all your time:  I shall see you at
meal-times, and in the evenings at least, and that will be better
than being leagues away and never seeing you at all.'
