
CHAPTER XXVII
October 9th. - It was on the night of the 4th, a little after tea,
that Annabella had been singing and playing, with Arthur as usual
at her side:  she had ended her song, but still she sat at the
instrument; and he stood leaning on the back of her chair,
conversing in scarcely audible tones, with his face in very close
proximity with hers.  I looked at Lord Lowborough.  He was at the
other end of the room, talking with Messrs. Hargrave and Grimsby;
but I saw him dart towards his lady and his host a quick, impatient
glance, expressive of intense disquietude, at which Grimsby smiled.
Determined to interrupt the TETE-E-TETE, I rose, and, selecting a
piece of music from the music stand, stepped up to the piano,
intending to ask the lady to play it; but I stood transfixed and
speechless on seeing her seated there, listening, with what seemed
an exultant smile on her flushed face to his soft murmurings, with
her hand quietly surrendered to his clasp.  The blood rushed first
to my heart, and then to my head; for there was more than this:
almost at the moment of my approach, he cast a hurried glance over
his shoulder towards the other occupants of the room, and then
ardently pressed the unresisting hand to his lips.  On raising his
eyes, he beheld me, and dropped them again, confounded and
dismayed.  She saw me too, and confronted me with a look of hard
defiance.  I laid the music on the piano, and retired.  I felt ill;
but I did not leave the room:  happily, it was getting late, and
could not be long before the company dispersed.
I went to the fire, and leant my head against the chimney-piece.
In a minute or two, some one asked me if I felt unwell.  I did not
answer; indeed, at the time, I knew not what was said; but I
mechanically looked up, and saw Mr. Hargrave standing beside me on
the rug.
'Shall I get you a glass of wine?' said he.
'No, thank you,' I replied; and, turning from him, I looked round.
Lady Lowborough was beside her husband, bending over him as he sat,
with her hand on his shoulder, softly talking and smiling in his
face; and Arthur was at the table, turning over a book of
engravings.  I seated myself in the nearest chair; and Mr.
Hargrave, finding his services were not desired, judiciously
withdrew.  Shortly after, the company broke up, and, as the guests
were retiring to their rooms, Arthur approached me, smiling with
the utmost assurance.
'Are you very angry, Helen?' murmured he.
'This is no jest, Arthur,' said I, seriously, but as calmly as I
could - 'unless you think it a jest to lose my affection for ever.'
'What! so bitter?' he exclaimed, laughingly, clasping my hand
between both his; but I snatched it away, in indignation - almost
in disgust, for he was obviously affected with wine.
'Then I must go down on my knees,' said he; and kneeling before me,
with clasped hands, uplifted in mock humiliation, he continued
imploringly - 'Forgive me, Helen - dear Helen, forgive me, and I'll
never do it again!' and, burying his face in his handkerchief, he
affected to sob aloud.
Leaving him thus employed, I took my candle, and, slipping quietly
from the room, hastened up-stairs as fast as I could.  But he soon
discovered that I had left him, and, rushing up after me, caught me
in his arms, just as I had entered the chamber, and was about to
shut the door in his face.
'No, no, by heaven, you sha'n't escape me so!' he cried.  Then,
alarmed at my agitation, he begged me not to put myself in such a
passion, telling me I was white in the face, and should kill myself
if I did so.
'Let me go, then,' I murmured; and immediately he released me - and
it was well he did, for I was really in a passion.  I sank into the
easy-chair and endeavoured to compose myself, for I wanted to speak
to him calmly.  He stood beside me, but did not venture to touch me
or to speak for a few seconds; then, approaching a little nearer,
he dropped on one knee - not in mock humility, but to bring himself
nearer my level, and leaning his hand on the arm of the chair, he
began in a low voice:  'It is all nonsense, Helen - a jest, a mere
nothing - not worth a thought.  Will you never learn,' he continued
more boldly, 'that you have nothing to fear from me? that I love
you wholly and entirely? - or if,' he added with a lurking smile,
'I ever give a thought to another, you may well spare it, for those
fancies are here and gone like a flash of lightning, while my love
for you burns on steadily, and for ever, like the sun.  You little
exorbitant tyrant, will not that -?'
'Be quiet a moment, will you, Arthur?' said I, 'and listen to me -
and don't think I'm in a jealous fury:  I am perfectly calm.  Feel
my hand.'  And I gravely extended it towards him - but closed it
upon his with an energy that seemed to disprove the assertion, and
made him smile.  'You needn't smile, sir,' said I, still tightening
my grasp, and looking steadfastly on him till he almost quailed
before me.  'You may think it all very fine, Mr. Huntingdon, to
amuse yourself with rousing my jealousy; but take care you don't
rouse my hate instead.  And when you have once extinguished my
love, you will find it no easy matter to kindle it again.'
'Well, Helen, I won't repeat the offence.  But I meant nothing by
it, I assure you.  I had taken too much wine, and I was scarcely
myself at the time.'
'You often take too much; and that is another practice I detest.'
He looked up astonished at my warmth.  'Yes,' I continued; 'I never
mentioned it before, because I was ashamed to do so; but now I'll
tell you that it distresses me, and may disgust me, if you go on
and suffer the habit to grow upon you, as it will if you don't
check it in time.  But the whole system of your conduct to Lady
Lowborough is not referable to wine; and this night you knew
perfectly well what you were doing.'
'Well, I'm sorry for it,' replied he, with more of sulkiness than
contrition:  'what more would you have?'
'You are sorry that I saw you, no doubt,' I answered coldly.
'If you had not seen me,' he muttered, fixing his eyes on the
carpet, 'it would have done no harm.'
My heart felt ready to burst; but I resolutely swallowed back my
emotion, and answered calmly,
'You think not?'
'No,' replied he, boldly.  'After all, what have I done?  It's
nothing - except as you choose to make it a subject of accusation
and distress.'
'What would Lord Lowborough, your friend, think, if he knew all? or
what would you yourself think, if he or any other had acted the
same part to me, throughout, as you have to Annabella?'
'I would blow his brains out.'
