
'Well, then, Arthur, how can you call it nothing - an offence for
which you would think yourself justified in blowing another man's
brains out?  Is it nothing to trifle with your friend's feelings
and mine - to endeavour to steal a woman's affections from her
husband - what he values more than his gold, and therefore what it
is more dishonest to take?  Are the marriage vows a jest; and is it
nothing to make it your sport to break them, and to tempt another
to do the same?  Can I love a man that does such things, and coolly
maintains it is nothing?'
'You are breaking your marriage vows yourself,' said he,
indignantly rising and pacing to and fro.  'You promised to honour
and obey me, and now you attempt to hector over me, and threaten
and accuse me, and call me worse than a highwayman.  If it were not
for your situation, Helen, I would not submit to it so tamely.  I
won't be dictated to by a woman, though she be my wife.'
'What will you do then?  Will you go on till I hate you, and then
accuse me of breaking my vows?'
He was silent a. moment, and then replied:  'You never will hate
me.'  Returning and resuming his former position at my feet, he
repeated more vehemently - 'You cannot hate me as long as I love
you.'
'But how can I believe that you love me, if you continue to act in
this way?  Just imagine yourself in my place:  would you think I
loved you, if I did so?  Would you believe my protestations, and
honour and trust me under such circumstances? '
'The cases are different,' he replied.  'It is a woman's nature to
be constant - to love one and one only, blindly, tenderly, and for
ever - bless them, dear creatures! and you above them all; but you
must have some commiseration for us, Helen; you must give us a
little more licence, for, as Shakespeare has it -
However we do praise ourselves,
Our fancies are more giddy and unfirm,
More longing, wavering, sooner lost and won
Than women's are.'
'Do you mean by that, that your fancies are lost to me, and won by
Lady Lowborough?'
'No! heaven is my witness that I think her mere dust and ashes in
comparison with you, and shall continue to think so, unless you
drive me from you by too much severity.  She is a daughter of
earth; you are an angel of heaven; only be not too austere in your
divinity, and remember that I am a poor, fallible mortal.  Come
now, Helen; won't you forgive me?' he said, gently taking my hand,
and looking up with an innocent smile.
'If I do, you will repeat the offence.'
'I swear by - '
'Don't swear; I'll believe your word as well as your oath.  I wish
I could have confidence in either.'
'Try me, then, Helen:  only trust and pardon me this once, and you
shall see!  Come, I am in hell's torments till you speak the word.'
I did not speak it, but I put my hand on his shoulder and kissed
his forehead, and then burst into tears.  He embraced me tenderly;
and we have been good friends ever since.  He has been decently
temperate at table, and well-conducted towards Lady Lowborough.
The first day he held himself aloof from her, as far as he could
without any flagrant breach of hospitality:  since that he has been
friendly and civil, but nothing more - in my presence, at least,
nor, I think, at any other time; for she seems haughty and
displeased, and Lord Lowborough is manifestly more cheerful, and
more cordial towards his host than before.  But I shall be glad
when they are gone, for I have so little love for Annabella that it
is quite a task to be civil to her, and as she is the only woman
here besides myself, we are necessarily thrown so much together.
Next time Mrs. Hargrave calls I shall hail her advent as quite a
relief.  I have a good mind to ask Arthur's leave to invite the old
lady to stay with us till our guests depart.  I think I will.  She
will take it as a kind attention, and, though I have little relish
for her society, she will be truly welcome as a third to stand
between Lady Lowborough and me.
The first time the latter and I were alone together, after that
unhappy evening, was an hour or two after breakfast on the
following day, when the gentlemen were gone out, after the usual
time spent in the writing of letters, the reading of newspapers,
and desultory conversation.  We sat silent for two or three
minutes.  She was busy with her work, and I was running over the
columns of a paper from which I had extracted all the pith some
twenty minutes before.  It was a moment of painful embarrassment to
me, and I thought it must be infinitely more so to her; but it
seems I was mistaken.  She was the first to speak; and, smiling
with the coolest assurance, she began, -
'Your husband was merry last night, Helen:  is he often so?'
My blood boiled in my face; but it was better she should seem to
attribute his conduct to this than to anything else.
'No,' replied I, 'and never will be so again, I trust.'
'You gave him a curtain lecture, did you?'
'No! but I told him I disliked such conduct, and he promised me not
to repeat it.'
'I thought he looked rather subdued this morning,' she continued;
'and you, Helen? you've been weeping, I see - that's our grand
resource, you know.  But doesn't it make your eyes smart? and do
you always find it to answer?'
'I never cry for effect; nor can I conceive how any one can.'
'Well, I don't know:  I never had occasion to try it; but I think
if Lowborough were to commit such improprieties, I'd make him cry.
I don't wonder at your being angry, for I'm sure I'd give my
husband a lesson he would not soon forget for a lighter offence
than that.  But then he never will do anything of the kind; for I
keep him in too good order for that.'
