
'Was he well?'
'Yes - that is,' said he, with increasing hesitation and an
appearance of suppressed indignation, 'he was as well as - as he
deserved to be, but under circumstances I should have deemed
incredible for a man so favoured as he is.'  He here looked up and
pointed the sentence with a serious bow to me.  I suppose my face
was crimson.
'Pardon me, Mrs. Huntingdon,' he continued, 'but I cannot suppress
my indignation when I behold such infatuated blindness and
perversion of taste; - but, perhaps, you are not aware - '  He
paused.
'I am aware of nothing, sir - except that he delays his coming
longer than I expected; and if, at present, he prefers the society
of his friends to that of his wife, and the dissipations of the
town to the quiet of country life, I suppose I have those friends
to thank for it.  Their tastes and occupations are similar to his,
and I don't see why his conduct should awaken either their
indignation or surprise.'
'You wrong me cruelly,' answered he.  'I have shared but little of
Mr. Huntingdon's society for the last few weeks; and as for his
tastes and occupations, they are quite beyond me - lonely wanderer
as I am.  Where I have but sipped and tasted, he drains the cup to
the dregs; and if ever for a moment I have sought to drown the
voice of reflection in madness and folly, or if I have wasted too
much of my time and talents among reckless and dissipated
companions, God knows I would gladly renounce them entirely and for
ever, if I had but half the blessings that man so thanklessly casts
behind his back - but half the inducements to virtue and domestic,
orderly habits that he despises - but such a home, and such a
partner to share it!  It is infamous!' he muttered, between his
teeth.  'And don't think, Mrs. Huntingdon,' he added aloud, 'that I
could be guilty of inciting him to persevere in his present
pursuits:  on the contrary, I have remonstrated with him again and
again; I have frequently expressed my surprise at his conduct, and
reminded him of his duties and his privileges - but to no purpose;
he only - '
'Enough, Mr. Hargrave; you ought to be aware that whatever my
husband's faults may be, it can only aggravate the evil for me to
hear them from a stranger's lips.'
'Am I then a stranger?' said he in a sorrowful tone.  'I am your
nearest neighbour, your son's godfather, and your husband's friend;
may I not be yours also?'
'Intimate acquaintance must precede real friendship; I know but
little of you, Mr. Hargrave, except from report.'
'Have you then forgotten the six or seven weeks I spent under your
roof last autumn?  I have not forgotten them.  And I know enough of
you, Mrs. Huntingdon, to think that your husband is the most
enviable man in the world, and I should be the next if you would
deem me worthy of your friendship.'
'If you knew more of me, you would not think it, or if you did you
would not say it, and expect me to be flattered by the compliment.'
I stepped backward as I spoke.  He saw that I wished the
conversation to end; and immediately taking the hint, he gravely
bowed, wished me good-evening, and turned his horse towards the
road.  He appeared grieved and hurt at my unkind reception of his
sympathising overtures.  I was not sure that I had done right in
speaking so harshly to him; but, at the time, I had felt irritated
- almost insulted by his conduct; it seemed as if he was presuming
upon the absence and neglect of my husband, and insinuating even
more than the truth against him.
Rachel had moved on, during our conversation, to some yards'
distance.  He rode up to her, and asked to see the child.  He took
it carefully into his arms, looked upon it with an almost paternal
smile, and I heard him say, as I approached, -
'And this, too, he has forsaken!'
He then tenderly kissed it, and restored it to the gratified nurse.
'Are you fond of children, Mr. Hargrave?' said I, a little softened
towards him.
'Not in general,' he replied, 'but that is such a sweet child, and
so like its mother,' he added in a lower tone.
'You are mistaken there; it is its father it resembles.'
'Am I not right, nurse?' said he, appealing to Rachel.
'I think, sir, there's a bit of both,' she replied.
He departed; and Rachel pronounced him a very nice gentleman.  I
had still my doubts on the subject.
In the course of the following six weeks I met him several times,
but always, save once, in company with his mother, or his sister,
or both.  When I called on them, he always happened to be at home,
and, when they called on me, it was always he that drove them over
in the phaeton.  His mother, evidently, was quite delighted with
his dutiful attentions and newly-acquired domestic habits.
The time that I met him alone was on a bright, but not oppressively
hot day, in the beginning of July:  I had taken little Arthur into
the wood that skirts the park, and there seated him on the moss-
cushioned roots of an old oak; and, having gathered a handful of
bluebells and wild-roses, I was kneeling before him, and presenting
them, one by one, to the grasp of his tiny fingers; enjoying the
heavenly beauty of the flowers, through the medium of his smiling
eyes:  forgetting, for the moment, all my cares, laughing at his
gleeful laughter, and delighting myself with his delight, - when a
shadow suddenly eclipsed the little space of sunshine on the grass
before us; and looking up, I beheld Walter Hargrave standing and
gazing upon us.
'Excuse me, Mrs. Huntingdon,' said he, 'but I was spell-bound; I
had neither the power to come forward and interrupt you, nor to
withdraw from the contemplation of such a scene.  How vigorous my
little godson grows! and how merry he is this morning!'  He
approached the child, and stooped to take his hand; but, on seeing
that his caresses were likely to produce tears and lamentations,
instead of a reciprocation of friendly demonstrations, he prudently
drew back.
'What a pleasure and comfort that little creature must be to you,
Mrs. Huntingdon!' he observed, with a touch of sadness in his
intonation, as he admiringly contemplated the infant.
'It is,' replied I; and then I asked after his mother and sister.
