
He politely answered my inquiries, and then returned again to the
subject I wished to avoid; though with a degree of timidity that
witnessed his fear to offend.
'You have not heard from Huntingdon lately?' he said.
'Not this week,' I replied.  Not these three weeks, I might have
said.
'I had a letter from him this morning.  I wish it were such a one
as I could show to his lady.'  He half drew from his waistcoat-
pocket a letter with Arthur's still beloved hand on the address,
scowled at it, and put it back again, adding - 'But he tells me he
is about to return next week.'
'He tells me so every time he writes.'
'Indeed! well, it is like him.  But to me he always avowed it his
intention to stay till the present month.'
It struck me like a blow, this proof of premeditated transgression
and systematic disregard of truth.
'It is only of a piece with the rest of his conduct,' observed Mr.
Hargrave, thoughtfully regarding me, and reading, I suppose, my
feelings in my face.
'Then he is really coming next week?' said I, after a pause.
'You may rely upon it, if the assurance can give you any pleasure.
And is it possible, Mrs. Huntingdon, that you can rejoice at his
return?' he exclaimed, attentively perusing my features again.
'Of course, Mr. Hargrave; is he not my husband?'
'Oh, Huntingdon; you know not what you slight!' he passionately
murmured.
I took up my baby, and, wishing him good-morning, departed, to
indulge my thoughts unscrutinized, within the sanctum of my home.
And was I glad?  Yes, delighted; though I was angered by Arthur's
conduct, and though I felt that he had wronged me, and was
determined he should feel it too.
CHAPTER XXX
On the following morning I received a few lines from him myself,
confirming Hargrave's intimations respecting his approaching
return.  And he did come next week, but in a condition of body and
mind even worse than before.  I did not, however, intend to pass
over his derelictions this time without a remark; I found it would
not do.  But the first day he was weary with his journey, and I was
glad to get him back:  I would not upbraid him then; I would wait
till to-morrow.  Next morning he was weary still:  I would wait a
little longer.  But at dinner, when, after breakfasting at twelve
o'clock on a bottle of soda-water and a cup of strong coffee, and
lunching at two on another bottle of soda-water mingled with
brandy, he was finding fault with everything on the table, and
declaring we must change our cook, I thought the time was come.
'It is the same cook as we had before you went, Arthur,' said I.
'You were generally pretty well satisfied with her then.'
'You must have been letting her get into slovenly habits, then,
while I was away.  It is enough to poison one, eating such a
disgusting mess!'  And he pettishly pushed away his plate, and
leant back despairingly in his chair.
'I think it is you that are changed, not she,' said I, but with the
utmost gentleness, for I did not wish to irritate him.
'It may be so,' he replied carelessly, as he seized a tumbler of
wine and water, adding, when he had tossed it off, 'for I have an
infernal fire in my veins, that all the waters of the ocean cannot
quench!'
'What kindled it?' I was about to ask, but at that moment the
butler entered and began to take away the things.
