
'Be quick, Benson; do have done with that infernal clatter!' cried
his master.  'And don't bring the cheese, unless you want to make
me sick outright!'
Benson, in some surprise, removed the cheese, and did his best to
effect a quiet and speedy clearance of the rest; but,
unfortunately, there was a rumple in the carpet, caused by the
hasty pushing back of his master's chair, at which he tripped and
stumbled, causing a rather alarming concussion with the trayful of
crockery in his hands, but no positive damage, save the fall and
breaking of a sauce tureen; but, to my unspeakable shame and
dismay, Arthur turned furiously around upon him, and swore at him
with savage coarseness.  The poor man turned pale, and visibly
trembled as he stooped to pick up the fragments.
'He couldn't help it, Arthur,' said I; 'the carpet caught his foot,
and there's no great harm done.  Never mind the pieces now, Benson;
you can clear them away afterwards.'
Glad to be released, Benson expeditiously set out the dessert and
withdrew.
'What could you mean, Helen, by taking the servant's part against
me,' said Arthur, as soon as the door was closed, 'when you knew I
was distracted?'
'I did not know you were distracted, Arthur:  and the poor man was
quite frightened and hurt at your sudden explosion.'
'Poor man, indeed! and do you think I could stop to consider the
feelings of an insensate brute like that, when my own nerves were
racked and torn to pieces by his confounded blunders?'
'I never heard you complain of your nerves before.'
'And why shouldn't I have nerves as well as you?'
'Oh, I don't dispute your claim to their possession, but I never
complain of mine.'
'No, how should you, when you never do anything to try them?'
'Then why do you try yours, Arthur?'
'Do you think I have nothing to do but to stay at home and take
care of myself like a woman?'
'Is it impossible, then, to take care of yourself like a man when
you go abroad?  You told me that you could, and would too; and you
promised - '
'Come, come, Helen, don't begin with that nonsense now; I can't
bear it.'
'Can't bear what? - to be reminded of the promises you have
broken?'
'Helen, you are cruel.  If you knew how my heart throbbed, and how
every nerve thrilled through me while you spoke, you would spare
me.  You can pity a dolt of a servant for breaking a dish; but you
have no compassion for me when my head is split in two and all on
fire with this consuming fever.'
He leant his head on his hand, and sighed.  I went to him and put
my hand on his forehead.  It was burning indeed.
'Then come with me into the drawing-room, Arthur; and don't take
any more wine:  you have taken several glasses since dinner, and
eaten next to nothing all the day.  How can that make you better?'
With some coaxing and persuasion, I got him to leave the table.
When the baby was brought I tried to amuse him with that; but poor
little Arthur was cutting his teeth, and his father could not bear
his complaints:  sentence of immediate banishment was passed upon
him on the first indication of fretfulness; and because, in the
course of the evening, I went to share his exile for a little
while, I was reproached, on my return, for preferring my child to
my husband.  I found the latter reclining on the sofa just as I had
left him.
'Well!' exclaimed the injured man, in a tone of pseudo-resignation.
'I thought I wouldn't send for you; I thought I'd just see how long
it would please you to leave me alone.'
'I have not been very long, have I, Arthur?  I have not been an
hour, I'm sure.'
'Oh, of course, an hour is nothing to you, so pleasantly employed;
but to me - '
'It has not been pleasantly employed,' interrupted I.  'I have been
nursing our poor little baby, who is very far from well, and I
could not leave him till I got him to sleep.'
'Oh, to be sure, you're overflowing with kindness and pity for
everything but me.'
