
'And why should I pity you?  What is the matter with you?'
'Well! that passes everything!  After all the wear and tear that
I've had, when I come home sick and weary, longing for comfort, and
expecting to find attention and kindness, at least from my wife,
she calmly asks what is the matter with me!'
'There is nothing the matter with you,' returned I, 'except what
you have wilfully brought upon yourself, against my earnest
exhortation and entreaty.'
'Now, Helen,' said he emphatically, half rising from his recumbent
posture, 'if you bother me with another word, I'll ring the bell
and order six bottles of wine, and, by heaven, I'll drink them dry
before I stir from this place!'
I said no more, but sat down before the table and drew a book
towards me.
'Do let me have quietness at least!' continued he, 'if you deny me
every other comfort;' and sinking back into his former position,
with an impatient expiration between a sigh and a groan, he
languidly closed his eyes, as if to sleep.
What the book was that lay open on the table before me, I cannot
tell, for I never looked at it.  With an elbow on each side of it,
and my hands clasped before my eyes, I delivered myself up to
silent weeping.  But Arthur was not asleep:  at the first slight
sob, he raised his head and looked round, impatiently exclaiming,
'What are you crying for, Helen?  What the deuce is the matter
now?'
'I'm crying for you, Arthur,' I replied, speedily drying my tears;
and starting up, I threw myself on my knees before him, and
clasping his nerveless hand between my own, continued:  'Don't you
know that you are a part of myself?  And do you think you can
injure and degrade yourself, and I not feel it?'
'Degrade myself, Helen?'
'Yes, degrade!  What have you been doing all this time?'
'You'd better not ask,' said he, with a faint smile.
'And you had better not tell; but you cannot deny that you have
degraded yourself miserably.  You have shamefully wronged yourself,
body and soul, and me too; and I can't endure it quietly, and I
won't!'
'Well, don't squeeze my hand so frantically, and don't agitate me
so, for heaven's sake!  Oh, Hattersley! you were right:  this woman
will be the death of me, with her keen feelings and her interesting
force of character.  There, there, do spare me a little.'
'Arthur, you must repent!' cried I, in a frenzy of desperation,
throwing my arms around him and burying my face in his bosom.  'You
shall say you are sorry for what you have done!'
'Well, well, I am.'
'You are not! you'll do it again.'
'I shall never live to do it again if you treat me so savagely,'
replied he, pushing me from him.  'You've nearly squeezed the
breath out of my body.'  He pressed his hand to his heart, and
looked really agitated and ill.
'Now get me a glass of wine,' said he, 'to remedy what you've done,
you she tiger!  I'm almost ready to faint.'
I flew to get the required remedy.  It seemed to revive him
considerably.
'What a shame it is,' said I, as I took the empty glass from his
hand, 'for a strong young man like you to reduce yourself to such a
state!'
'If you knew all, my girl, you'd say rather, "What a wonder it is
you can bear it so well as you do!"  I've lived more in these four
months, Helen, than you have in the whole course of your existence,
or will to the end of your days, if they numbered a hundred years;
so I must expect to pay for it in some shape.'
'You will have to pay a higher price than you anticipate, if you
don't take care:  there will be the total loss of your own health,
and of my affection too, if that is of any value to you.'
'What! you're at that game of threatening me with the loss of your
affection again, are you?  I think it couldn't have been very
genuine stuff to begin with, if it's so easily demolished.  If you
don't mind, my pretty tyrant, you'll make me regret my choice in
good earnest, and envy my friend Hattersley his meek little wife:
she's quite a pattern to her sex, Helen.  He had her with him in
London all the season, and she was no trouble at all.  He might
amuse himself just as he pleased, in regular bachelor style, and
she never complained of neglect; he might come home at any hour of
the night or morning, or not come home at all; be sullen, sober, or
glorious drunk; and play the fool or the madman to his own heart's
desire, without any fear or botheration.  She never gives him a
word of reproach or complaint, do what he will.  He says there's
not such a jewel in all England, and swears he wouldn't take a
kingdom for her.'
'But he makes her life a curse to her.'
'Not he!  She has no will but his, and is always contented and
happy as long as he is enjoying himself.'
