
March 20th, 1824.  The dreaded time is come, and Arthur is gone, as
I expected.  This time he announced it his intention to make but a
short stay in London, and pass over to the Continent, where he
should probably stay a few weeks; but I shall not expect him till
after the lapse of many weeks:  I now know that, with him, days
signify weeks, and weeks months.
July 30th. - He returned about three weeks ago, rather better in
health, certainly, than before, but still worse in temper.  And
yet, perhaps, I am wrong:  it is I that am less patient and
forbearing.  I am tired out with his injustice, his selfishness and
hopeless depravity.  I wish a milder word would do; I am no angel,
and my corruption rises against it.  My poor father died last week:
Arthur was vexed to hear of it, because he saw that I was shocked
and grieved, and he feared the circumstance would mar his comfort.
When I spoke of ordering my mourning, he exclaimed, - 'Oh, I hate
black!  But, however, I suppose you must wear it awhile, for form's
sake; but I hope, Helen, you won't think it your bounden duty to
compose your face and manners into conformity with your funereal
garb.  Why should you sigh and groan, and I be made uncomfortable,
because an old gentleman in -shire, a perfect stranger to us both,
has thought proper to drink himself to death?  There, now, I
declare you're crying!  Well, it must be affectation.'
He would not hear of my attending the funeral, or going for a day
or two, to cheer poor Frederick's solitude.  It was quite
unnecessary, he said, and I was unreasonable to wish it.  What was
my father to me?  I had never seen him but once since I was a baby,
and I well knew he had never cared a stiver about me; and my
brother, too, was little better than a stranger.  'Besides, dear
Helen,' said he, embracing me with flattering fondness, 'I cannot
spare you for a single day.'
'Then how have you managed without me these many days?' said I.
'Ah! then I was knocking about the world, now I am at home, and
home without you, my household deity, would be intolerable.'
'Yes, as long as I am necessary to your comfort; but you did not
say so before, when you urged me to leave you, in order that you
might get away from your home without me,' retorted I; but before
the words were well out of my mouth, I regretted having uttered
them.  It seemed so heavy a charge:  if false, too gross an insult;
if true, too humiliating a fact to be thus openly cast in his
teeth.  But I might have spared myself that momentary pang of self-
reproach.  The accusation awoke neither shame nor indignation in
him:  he attempted neither denial nor excuse, but only answered
with a long, low, chuckling laugh, as if he viewed the whole
transaction as a clever, merry jest from beginning to end.  Surely
that man will make me dislike him at last!
Sine as ye brew, my maiden fair,
Keep mind that ye maun drink the yill.
Yes; and I will drink it to the very dregs:  and none but myself
shall know how bitter I find it!
August 20th. - We are shaken down again to about our usual
position.  Arthur has returned to nearly his former condition and
habits; and I have found it my wisest plan to shut my eyes against
the past and future, as far as he, at least, is concerned, and live
only for the present:  to love him when I can; to smile (if
possible) when he smiles, be cheerful when he is cheerful, and
pleased when he is agreeable; and when he is not, to try to make
him so; and if that won't answer, to bear with him, to excuse him,
and forgive him as well as I can, and restrain my own evil passions
from aggravating his; and yet, while I thus yield and minister to
his more harmless propensities to self-indulgence, to do all in my
power to save him from the worse.
But we shall not be long alone together.  I shall shortly be called
upon to entertain the same select body of friends as we had the
autumn before last, with the addition of Mr. Hattersley and, at my
special request, his wife and child.  I long to see Milicent, and
her little girl too.  The latter is now above a year old; she will
be a charming playmate for my little Arthur.
September 30th. - Our guests have been here a week or two; but I
have had no leisure to pass any comments upon them till now.  I
cannot get over my dislike to Lady Lowborough.  It is not founded
on mere personal pique; it is the woman herself that I dislike,
because I so thoroughly disapprove of her.  I always avoid her
company as much as I can without violating the laws of hospitality;
but when we do speak or converse together, it is with the utmost
civility, even apparent cordiality on her part; but preserve me
from such cordiality!  It is like handling brier-roses and may-
blossoms, bright enough to the eye, and outwardly soft to the
touch, but you know there are thorns beneath, and every now and
then you feel them too; and perhaps resent the injury by crushing
them in till you have destroyed their power, though somewhat to the
detriment of your own fingers.
Of late, however, I have seen nothing in her conduct towards Arthur
to anger or alarm me.  During the first few days I thought she
seemed very solicitous to win his admiration.  Her efforts were not
unnoticed by him:  I frequently saw him smiling to himself at her
artful manoeuvres:  but, to his praise be it spoken, her shafts
fell powerless by his side.  Her most bewitching smiles, her
haughtiest frowns were ever received with the same immutable,
careless good-humour; till, finding he was indeed impenetrable, she
suddenly remitted her efforts, and became, to all appearance, as
perfectly indifferent as himself.  Nor have I since witnessed any
symptom of pique on his part, or renewed attempts at conquest upon
hers.
This is as it should be; but Arthur never will let me be satisfied
with him.  I have never, for a single hour since I married him,
known what it is to realise that sweet idea, 'In quietness and
confidence shall be your rest.'  Those two detestable men, Grimsby
and Hattersley, have destroyed all my labour against his love of
wine.  They encourage him daily to overstep the bounds of
moderation, and not unfrequently to disgrace himself by positive
excess.  I shall not soon forget the second night after their
arrival.  Just as I had retired from the dining-room with the
ladies, before the door was closed upon us, Arthur exclaimed, -
'Now then, my lads, what say you to a regular jollification?'
Milicent glanced at me with a half-reproachful look, as if I could
hinder it; but her countenance changed when she heard Hattersley's
voice, shouting through door and wall, - 'I'm your man!  Send for
more wine:  here isn't half enough!'
We had scarcely entered the drawing-room before we were joined by
Lord Lowborough.
'What can induce you to come so soon?' exclaimed his lady, with a
most ungracious air of dissatisfaction.
'You know I never drink, Annabella,' replied he seriously.
'Well, but you might stay with them a little:  it looks so silly to
be always dangling after the women; I wonder you can!'
He reproached her with a look of mingled bitterness and surprise,
and, sinking into a chair, suppressed a heavy sigh, bit his pale
lips, and fixed his eyes upon the floor.
'You did right to leave them, Lord Lowborough,' said I.  'I trust
you will always continue to honour us so early with your company.
And if Annabella knew the value of true wisdom, and the misery of
folly and - and intemperance, she would not talk such nonsense -
even in jest.'
He raised his eyes while I spoke, and gravely turned them upon me,
with a half-surprised, half-abstracted look, and then bent them on
his wife.
'At least,' said she, 'I know the value of a warm heart and a bold,
manly spirit.'
