
'I wonder what his worst behaviour is like, then?' I could not
forbear observing.
'Why, to tell you the truth, it's very bad indeed - isn't it,
Hargrave?' said he, addressing that gentleman, who had entered the
room unperceived by me, for I was now standing near the fire, with
my back to the door.  'Isn't Huntingdon,' he continued, 'as great a
reprobate as ever was d-d?'
'His lady will not hear him censured with impunity,' replied Mr.
Hargrave, coming forward; 'but I must say, I thank God I am not
such another.'
'Perhaps it would become you better,' said I, 'to look at what you
are, and say, "God be merciful to me a sinner."'
'You are severe,' returned he, bowing slightly and drawing himself
up with a proud yet injured air.  Hattersley laughed, and clapped
him on the shoulder.  Moving from under his hand with a gesture of
insulted dignity, Mr. Hargrave took himself away to the other end
of the rug.
'Isn't it a shame, Mrs. Huntingdon?' cried his brother-in-law; 'I
struck Walter Hargrave when I was drunk, the second night after we
came, and he's turned a cold shoulder on me ever since; though I
asked his pardon the very morning after it was done!'
'Your manner of asking it,' returned the other, 'and the clearness
with which you remembered the whole transaction, showed you were
not too drunk to be fully conscious of what you were about, and
quite responsible for the deed.'
'You wanted to interfere between me and my wife,' grumbled
Hattersley, 'and that is enough to provoke any man.'
'You justify it, then?' said his opponent, darting upon him a most
vindictive glance.
'No, I tell you I wouldn't have done it if I hadn't been under
excitement; and if you choose to bear malice for it after all the
handsome things I've said, do so and be d-d!'
'I would refrain from such language in a lady's presence, at
least,' said Mr. Hargrave, hiding his anger under a mask of
disgust.
'What have I said?' returned Hattersley:  'nothing but heaven's
truth.  He will be damned, won't he, Mrs. Huntingdon, if he doesn't
forgive his brother's trespasses?'
'You ought to forgive him, Mr. Hargrave, since he asks you,' said
I.
'Do you say so?  Then I will!'  And, smiling almost frankly, he
stepped forward and offered his hand.  It was immediately clasped
in that of his relative, and the reconciliation was apparently
cordial on both sides.
'The affront,' continued Hargrave, turning to me, 'owed half its
bitterness to the fact of its being offered in your presence; and
since you bid me forgive it, I will, and forget it too.'
'I guess the best return I can make will be to take myself off,'
muttered Hattersley, with a broad grin.  His companion smiled, and
he left the room.  This put me on my guard.  Mr. Hargrave turned
seriously to me, and earnestly began, -
'Dear Mrs. Huntingdon, how I have longed for, yet dreaded, this
hour!  Do not be alarmed,' he added, for my face was crimson with
anger:  'I am not about to offend you with any useless entreaties
or complaints.  I am not going to presume to trouble you with the
mention of my own feelings or your perfections, but I have
something to reveal to you which you ought to know, and which, yet,
it pains me inexpressibly - '
'Then don't trouble yourself to reveal it!'
'But it is of importance - '
'If so I shall hear it soon enough, especially if it is bad news,
as you seem to consider it.  At present I am going to take the
children to the nursery.'
'But can't you ring and send them?'
'No; I want the exercise of a run to the top of the house.  Come,
Arthur.'
'But you will return?'
'Not yet; don't wait.'
'Then when may I see you again?'
