
'At lunch,' said I, departing with little Helen in one arm and
leading Arthur by the hand.
He turned away, muttering some sentence of impatient censure or
complaint, in which 'heartless' was the only distinguishable word.
'What nonsense is this, Mr. Hargrave?' said I, pausing in the
doorway.  'What do you mean?'
'Oh, nothing; I did not intend you should hear my soliloquy.  But
the fact is, Mrs. Huntingdon, I have a disclosure to make, painful
for me to offer as for you to hear; and I want you to give me a few
minutes of your attention in private at any time and place you like
to appoint.  It is from no selfish motive that I ask it, and not
for any cause that could alarm your superhuman purity:  therefore
you need not kill me with that look of cold and pitiless disdain.
I know too well the feelings with which the bearers of bad tidings
are commonly regarded not to - '
'What is this wonderful piece of intelligence?' said I, impatiently
interrupting him.  'If it is anything of real importance, speak it
in three words before I go.'
'In three words I cannot.  Send those children away and stay with
me.'
'No; keep your bad tidings to yourself.  I know it is something I
don't want to hear, and something you would displease me by
telling.'
'You have divined too truly, I fear; but still, since I know it, I
feel it my duty to disclose it to you.'
'Oh, spare us both the infliction, and I will exonerate you from
the duty.  You have offered to tell; I have refused to hear:  my
ignorance will not be charged on you.'
'Be it so:  you shall not hear it from me.  But if the blow fall
too suddenly upon you when it comes, remember I wished to soften
it!'
I left him.  I was determined his words should not alarm me.  What
could he, of all men, have to reveal that was of importance for me
to hear?  It was no doubt some exaggerated tale about my
unfortunate husband that he wished to make the most of to serve his
own bad purposes.
6th. - He has not alluded to this momentous mystery since, and I
have seen no reason to repent of my unwillingness to hear it.  The
threatened blow has not been struck yet, and I do not greatly fear
it.  At present I am pleased with Arthur:  he has not positively
disgraced himself for upwards of a fortnight, and all this last
week has been so very moderate in his indulgence at table that I
can perceive a marked difference in his general temper and
appearance.  Dare I hope this will continue?
CHAPTER XXXIII
Seventh. - Yes, I will hope!  To-night I heard Grimsby and
Hattersley grumbling together about the inhospitality of their
host.  They did not know I was near, for I happened to be standing
behind the curtain in the bow of the window, watching the moon
rising over the clump of tall dark elm-trees below the lawn, and
wondering why Arthur was so sentimental as to stand without,
leaning against the outer pillar of the portico, apparently
watching it too.
'So, I suppose we've seen the last of our merry carousals in this
house,' said Mr. Hattersley; 'I thought his good-fellowship
wouldn't last long.  But,' added he, laughing, 'I didn't expect it
would meet its end this way.  I rather thought our pretty hostess
would be setting up her porcupine quills, and threatening to turn
us out of the house if we didn't mind our manners.'
'You didn't foresee this, then?' answered Grimsby, with a guttural
chuckle.  'But he'll change again when he's sick of her.  If we
come here a year or two hence, we shall have all our own way,
you'll see.'
'I don't know,' replied the other:  'she's not the style of woman
you soon tire of.  But be that as it may, it's devilish provoking
now that we can't be jolly, because he chooses to be on his good
behaviour.'
'It's all these cursed women!' muttered Grimsby:  'they're the very
bane of the world!  They bring trouble and discomfort wherever they
come, with their false, fair faces and their deceitful tongues.'
At this juncture I issued from my retreat, and smiling on Mr.
Grimsby as I passed, left the room and went out in search of
Arthur.  Having seen him bend his course towards the shrubbery, I
followed him thither, and found him just entering the shadowy walk.
I was so light of heart, so overflowing with affection, that I
sprang upon him and clasped him in my arms.  This startling conduct
had a singular effect upon him:  first, he murmured, 'Bless you,
darling!' and returned my close embrace with a fervour like old
times, and then he started, and, in a tone of absolute terror,
exclaimed, 'Helen! what the devil is this?' and I saw, by the faint
light gleaming through the overshadowing tree, that he was
positively pale with the shock.
How strange that the instinctive impulse of affection should come
first, and then the shock of the surprise!  It shows, at least,
that the affection is genuine:  he is not sick of me yet.
'I startled you, Arthur,' said I, laughing in my glee.  'How
nervous you are!'
