
'What the deuce did you do it for?' cried he, quite testily,
extricating himself from my arms, and wiping his forehead with his
handkerchief.  'Go back, Helen - go back directly!  You'll get your
death of cold!'
'I won't, till I've told you what I came for.  They are blaming
you, Arthur, for your temperance and sobriety, and I'm come to
thank you for it.  They say it is all "these cursed women," and
that we are the bane of the world; but don't let them laugh or
grumble you out of your good resolutions, or your affection for
me.'
He laughed.  I squeezed him in my arms again, and cried in tearful
earnest, 'Do, do persevere! and I'll love you better than ever I
did before!'
'Well, well, I will!' said he, hastily kissing me.  'There, now,
go.  You mad creature, how could you come out in your light evening
dress this chill autumn night?'
'It is a glorious night,' said I.
'It is a night that will give you your death, in another minute.
Run away, do!'
'Do you see my death among those trees, Arthur?' said I, for he was
gazing intently at the shrubs, as if he saw it coming, and I was
reluctant to leave him, in my new-found happiness and revival of
hope and love.  But he grew angry at my delay, so I kissed him and
ran back to the house.
I was in such a good humour that night:  Milicent told me I was the
life of the party, and whispered she had never seen me so
brilliant.  Certainly, I talked enough for twenty, and smiled upon
them all.  Grimsby, Hattersley, Hargrave, Lady Lowborough, all
shared my sisterly kindness.  Grimsby stared and wondered;
Hattersley laughed and jested (in spite of the little wine he had
been suffered to imbibe), but still behaved as well as he knew how.
Hargrave and Annabella, from different motives and in different
ways, emulated me, and doubtless both surpassed me, the former in
his discursive versatility and eloquence, the latter in boldness
and animation at least.  Milicent, delighted to see her husband,
her brother, and her over-estimated friend acquitting themselves so
well, was lively and gay too, in her quiet way.  Even Lord
Lowborough caught the general contagion:  his dark greenish eyes
were lighted up beneath their moody brows; his sombre countenance
was beautified by smiles; all traces of gloom and proud or cold
reserve had vanished for the time; and he astonished us all, not
only by his general cheerfulness and animation, but by the positive
flashes of true force and brilliance he emitted from time to time.
Arthur did not talk much, but he laughed, and listened to the rest,
and was in perfect good-humour, though not excited by wine.  So
that, altogether, we made a very merry, innocent, and entertaining
party.
9th. - Yesterday, when Rachel came to dress me for dinner, I saw
that she had been crying.  I wanted to know the cause of it, but
she seemed reluctant to tell.  Was she unwell?  No.  Had she heard
bad news from her friends?  No.  Had any of the servants vexed her?
'Oh, no, ma'am!' she answered; 'it's not for myself.'
'What then, Rachel?  Have you been reading novels?'
'Bless you, no!' said she, with a sorrowful shake of the head; and
then she sighed and continued:  'But to tell you the truth, ma'am,
I don't like master's ways of going on.'
'What do you mean, Rachel?  He's going on very properly at
present.'
'Well, ma'am, if you think so, it's right.'
And she went on dressing my hair, in a hurried way, quite unlike
her usual calm, collected manner, murmuring, half to herself, she
was sure it was beautiful hair:  she 'could like to see 'em match
it.'  When it was done, she fondly stroked it, and gently patted my
head.
'Is that affectionate ebullition intended for my hair, or myself,
nurse?' said I, laughingly turning round upon her; but a tear was
even now in her eye.
'What do you mean, Rachel?' I exclaimed.
'Well, ma'am, I don't know; but if - '
'If what?'
'Well, if I was you, I wouldn't have that Lady Lowborough in the
house another minute - not another minute I wouldn't!
I was thunderstruck; but before I could recover from the shock
sufficiently to demand an explanation, Milicent entered my room, as
she frequently does when she is dressed before me; and she stayed
with me till it was time to go down.  She must have found me a very
unsociable companion this time, for Rachel's last words rang in my
ears.  But still I hoped, I trusted they had no foundation but in
some idle rumour of the servants from what they had seen in Lady
Lowborough's manner last month; or perhaps from something that had
passed between their master and her during her former visit.  At
dinner I narrowly observed both her and Arthur, and saw nothing
extraordinary in the conduct of either, nothing calculated to
excite suspicion, except in distrustful minds, which mine was not,
and therefore I would not suspect.
Almost immediately after dinner Annabella went out with her husband
to share his moonlight ramble, for it was a splendid evening like
the last.  Mr. Hargrave entered the drawing-room a little before
the others, and challenged me to a game of chess.  He did it
without any of that sad but proud humility he usually assumes in
addressing me, unless he is excited with wine.  I looked at his
face to see if that was the case now.  His eye met mine keenly, but
steadily:  there was something about him I did not understand, but
he seemed sober enough.  Not choosing to engage with him, I
referred him to Milicent.
'She plays badly,' said he, 'I want to match my skill with yours.
Come now! you can't pretend you are reluctant to lay down your
work.  I know you never take it up except to pass an idle hour,
when there is nothing better you can do.'
'But chess-players are so unsociable,' I objected; 'they are no
company for any but themselves.'
'There is no one here but Milicent, and she - '
