
'Oh, I shall be delighted to watch you!' cried our mutual friend.
'Two such players - it will be quite a treat!  I wonder which will
conquer.'
I consented.
'Now, Mrs. Huntingdon,' said Hargrave, as he arranged the men on
the board, speaking distinctly, and with a peculiar emphasis, as if
he had a double meaning to all his words, 'you are a good player,
but I am a better:  we shall have a long game, and you will give me
some trouble; but I can be as patient as you, and in the end I
shall certainly win.'  He fixed his eyes upon me with a glance I
did not like, keen, crafty, bold, and almost impudent; - already
half triumphant in his anticipated success.
'I hope not, Mr. Hargrave!' returned I, with vehemence that must
have startled Milicent at least; but he only smiled and murmured,
'Time will show.'
We set to work:  he sufficiently interested in the game, but calm
and fearless in the consciousness of superior skill:  I, intensely
eager to disappoint his expectations, for I considered this the
type of a more serious contest, as I imagined he did, and I felt an
almost superstitious dread of being beaten:  at all events, I could
ill endure that present success should add one tittle to his
conscious power (his insolent self-confidence I ought to say), or
encourage for a moment his dream of future conquest.  His play was
cautious and deep, but I struggled hard against him.  For some time
the combat was doubtful:  at length, to my joy, the victory seemed
inclining to my side:  I had taken several of his best pieces, and
manifestly baffled his projects.  He put his hand to his brow and
paused, in evident perplexity.  I rejoiced in my advantage, but
dared not glory in it yet.  At length, he lifted his head, and
quietly making his move, looked at me and said, calmly, 'Now you
think you will win, don't you?'
'I hope so,' replied I, taking his pawn that he had pushed into the
way of my bishop with so careless an air that I thought it was an
oversight, but was not generous enough, under the circumstances, to
direct his attention to it, and too heedless, at the moment, to
foresee the after-consequences of my move.
'It is those bishops that trouble me,' said he; 'but the bold
knight can overleap the reverend gentlemen,' taking my last bishop
with his knight; 'and now, those sacred persons once removed, I
shall carry all before me.'
'Oh, Walter, how you talk!' cried Milicent; 'she has far more
pieces than you still.'
'I intend to give you some trouble yet,' said I; 'and perhaps, sir,
you will find yourself checkmated before you are aware.  Look to
your queen.'
The combat deepened.  The game was a long one, and I did give him
some trouble:  but he was a better player than I.
'What keen gamesters you are!' said Mr. Hattersley, who had now
entered, and been watching us for some time.  'Why, Mrs.
Huntingdon, your hand trembles as if you had staked your all upon
it! and, Walter, you dog, you look as deep and cool as if you were
certain of success, and as keen and cruel as if you would drain her
heart's blood!  But if I were you, I wouldn't beat her, for very
fear:  she'll hate you if you do - she will, by heaven!  I see it
in her eye.'
'Hold your tongue, will you?' said I:  his talk distracted me, for
I was driven to extremities.  A few more moves, and I was
inextricably entangled in the snare of my antagonist.
'Check,' cried he:  I sought in agony some means of escape.
'Mate!' he added, quietly, but with evident delight.  He had
suspended the utterance of that last fatal syllable the better to
enjoy my dismay.  I was foolishly disconcerted by the event.
Hattersley laughed; Milicent was troubled to see me so disturbed.
Hargrave placed his hand on mine that rested on the table, and
squeezing it with a firm but gentle pressure, murmured, 'Beaten,
beaten!' and gazed into my face with a look where exultation was
blended with an expression of ardour and tenderness yet more
insulting.
'No, never, Mr. Hargrave!' exclaimed I, quickly withdrawing my
hand.
'Do you deny?' replied he, smilingly pointing to the board.  'No,
no,' I answered, recollecting how strange my conduct must appear:
'you have beaten me in that game.'
'Will you try another, then?'
'No.'
'You acknowledge my superiority?'
'Yes, as a chess-player.'
I rose to resume my work.
'Where is Annabella?' said Hargrave, gravely, after glancing round
the room.
'Gone out with Lord Lowborough,' answered I, for he looked at me
for a reply.
'And not yet returned!' he said, seriously.
'I suppose not.'
'Where is Huntingdon?' looking round again.
