
'Gone out with Grimsby, as you know,' said Hattersley, suppressing
a laugh, which broke forth as he concluded the sentence.  Why did
he laugh?  Why did Hargrave connect them thus together?  Was it
true, then?  And was this the dreadful secret he had wished to
reveal to me?  I must know, and that quickly.  I instantly rose and
left the room to go in search of Rachel and demand an explanation
of her words; but Mr. Hargrave followed me into the anteroom, and
before I could open its outer door, gently laid his hand upon the
lock.  'May I tell you something, Mrs. Huntingdon?' said he, in a
subdued tone, with serious, downcast eyes.
'If it be anything worth hearing,' replied I, struggling to be
composed, for I trembled in every limb.
He quietly pushed a chair towards me.  I merely leant my hand upon
it, and bid him go on.
'Do not be alarmed,' said he:  'what I wish to say is nothing in
itself; and I will leave you to draw your own inferences from it.
You say that Annabella is not yet returned?'
'Yes, yes - go on!' said I, impatiently; for I feared my forced
calmness would leave me before the end of his disclosure, whatever
it might be.
'And you hear,' continued he, 'that Huntingdon is gone out with
Grimsby?'
'Well?'
'I heard the latter say to your husband - or the man who calls
himself so - '
'Go on, sir!'
He bowed submissively, and continued:  'I heard him say, - "I shall
manage it, you'll see!  They're gone down by the water; I shall
meet them there, and tell him I want a bit of talk with him about
some things that we needn't trouble the lady with; and she'll say
she can be walking back to the house; and then I shall apologise,
you know, and all that, and tip her a wink to take the way of the
shrubbery.  I'll keep him talking there, about those matters I
mentioned, and anything else I can think of, as long as I can, and
then bring him round the other way, stopping to look at the trees,
the fields, and anything else I can find to discourse of."'  Mr.
Hargrave paused, and looked at me.
Without a word of comment or further questioning, I rose, and
darted from the room and out of the house.  The torment of suspense
was not to be endured:  I would not suspect my husband falsely, on
this man's accusation, and I would not trust him unworthily - I
must know the truth at once.  I flew to the shrubbery.  Scarcely
had I reached it, when a sound of voices arrested my breathless
speed.
'We have lingered too long; he will be back,' said Lady
Lowborough's voice.
'Surely not, dearest!' was his reply; 'but you can run across the
lawn, and get in as quietly as you can; I'll follow in a while.'
My knees trembled under me; my brain swam round.  I was ready to
faint.  She must not see me thus.  I shrunk among the bushes, and
leant against the trunk of a tree to let her pass.
'Ah, Huntingdon!' said she reproachfully, pausing where I had stood
with him the night before - 'it was here you kissed that woman!'
she looked back into the leafy shade.  Advancing thence, he
answered, with a careless laugh, -
'Well, dearest, I couldn't help it.  You know I must keep straight
with her as long as I can.  Haven't I seen you kiss your dolt of a
husband scores of times? - and do I ever complain?'
'But tell me, don't you love her still - a little?' said she,
placing her hand on his arm, looking earnestly in his face - for I
could see them, plainly, the moon shining full upon them from
between the branches of the tree that sheltered me.
'Not one bit, by all that's sacred!' he replied, kissing her
glowing cheek.
'Good heavens, I must be gone!' cried she, suddenly breaking from
him, and away she flew.
There he stood before me; but I had not strength to confront him
now:  my tongue cleaved to the roof of my mouth; I was well-nigh
sinking to the earth, and I almost wondered he did not hear the
beating of my heart above the low sighing of the wind and the
fitful rustle of the falling leaves.  My senses seemed to fail me,
but still I saw his shadowy form pass before me, and through the
rushing sound in my ears I distinctly heard him say, as he stood
looking up the lawn, - 'There goes the fool!  Run, Annabella, run!
There - in with you!  Ah, - he didn't see!  That's right, Grimsby,
keep him back!'  And even his low laugh reached me as he walked
away.
'God help me now!' I murmured, sinking on my knees among the damp
weeds and brushwood that surrounded me, and looking up at the
moonlit sky, through the scant foliage above.  It seemed all dim
and quivering now to my darkened sight.  My burning, bursting heart
strove to pour forth its agony to God, but could not frame its
anguish into prayer; until a gust of wind swept over me, which,
while it scattered the dead leaves, like blighted hopes, around,
cooled my forehead, and seemed a little to revive my sinking frame.
Then, while I lifted up my soul in speechless, earnest
supplication, some heavenly influence seemed to strengthen me
within:  I breathed more freely; my vision cleared; I saw
distinctly the pure moon shining on, and the light clouds skimming
the clear, dark sky; and then I saw the eternal stars twinkling
down upon me; I knew their God was mine, and He was strong to save
and swift to hear.  'I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee,'
seemed whispered from above their myriad orbs.  No, no; I felt He
would not leave me comfortless:  in spite of earth and hell I
should have strength for all my trials, and win a glorious rest at
last!
Refreshed, invigorated, if not composed, I rose and returned to the
house.  Much of my new-born strength and courage forsook me, I
confess, as I entered it, and shut out the fresh wind and the
glorious sky:  everything I saw and heard seemed to sicken my heart
- the hall, the lamp, the staircase, the doors of the different
apartments, the social sound of talk and laughter from the drawing-
room.  How could I bear my future life!  In this house, among those
people - oh, how could I endure to live!  John just then entered
the hall, and seeing me, told me he had been sent in search of me,
adding that he had taken in the tea, and master wished to know if I
were coming.
'Ask Mrs. Hattersley to be so kind as to make the tea, John,' said
I.  'Say I am not well to-night, and wish to be excused.'
I retired into the large, empty dining-room, where all was silence
and darkness, but for the soft sighing of the wind without, and the
faint gleam of moonlight that pierced the blinds and curtains; and
there I walked rapidly up and down, thinking of my bitter thoughts
alone.  How different was this from the evening of yesterday!
That, it seems, was the last expiring flash of my life's happiness.
Poor, blinded fool that I was to be so happy!  I could now see the
reason of Arthur's strange reception of me in the shrubbery; the
burst of kindness was for his paramour, the start of horror for his
wife.  Now, too, I could better understand the conversation between
Hattersley and Grimsby; it was doubtless of his love for her they
spoke, not for me.
I heard the drawing-room door open:  a light quick step came out of
the ante-room, crossed the hall, and ascended the stairs.  It was
Milicent, poor Milicent, gone to see how I was - no one else cared
for me; but she still was kind.  I shed no tears before, but now
they came, fast and free.  Thus she did me good, without
approaching me.  Disappointed in her search, I heard her come down,
more slowly than she had ascended.  Would she come in there, and
find me out?  No, she turned in the opposite direction and re-
entered the drawing-room.  I was glad, for I knew not how to meet
her, or what to say.  I wanted no confidante in my distress.  I
deserved none, and I wanted none.  I had taken the burden upon
myself; let me bear it alone.
