
As the usual hour of retirement approached I dried my eyes, and
tried to clear my voice and calm my mind.  I must see Arthur to-
night, and speak to him; but I would do it calmly:  there should be
no scene - nothing to complain or to boast of to his companions -
nothing to laugh at with his lady-love.  When the company were
retiring to their chambers I gently opened the door, and just as he
passed, beckoned him in.
'What's to do with you, Helen?' said he.  'Why couldn't you come to
make tea for us? and what the deuce are you here for, in the dark?
What ails you, young woman:  you look like a ghost!' he continued,
surveying me by the light of his candle.
'No matter,' I answered, 'to you; you have no longer any regard for
me it appears; and I have no longer any for you.'
'Hal-lo! what the devil is this?' he muttered.
'I would leave you to-morrow,' continued I, 'and never again come
under this roof, but for my child' - I paused a moment to steady,
my voice.
'What in the devil's name is this, Helen?' cried he.  'What can you
be driving at?'
'You know perfectly well.  Let us waste no time in useless
explanation, but tell me, will you -?'
He vehemently swore he knew nothing about it, and insisted upon
hearing what poisonous old woman had been blackening his name, and
what infamous lies I had been fool enough to believe.
'Spare yourself the trouble of forswearing yourself and racking
your brains to stifle truth with falsehood,' I coldly replied.  'I
have trusted to the testimony of no third person.  I was in the
shrubbery this evening, and I saw and heard for myself.'
This was enough.  He uttered a suppressed exclamation of
consternation and dismay, and muttering, 'I shall catch it now!'
set down his candle on the nearest chair, and rearing his back
against the wall, stood confronting me with folded arms.
'Well, what then?' said he, with the calm insolence of mingled
shamelessness and desperation.
'Only this,' returned I; 'will you let me take our child and what
remains of my fortune, and go?'
'Go where?'
'Anywhere, where he will be safe from your contaminating influence,
and I shall be delivered from your presence, and you from mine.'
'No.'
'Will you let me have the child then, without the money?'
'No, nor yourself without the child.  Do you think I'm going to be
made the talk of the country for your fastidious caprices?'
'Then I must stay here, to be hated and despised.  But henceforth
we are husband and wife only in the name.'
'Very good.'
'I am your child's mother, and your housekeeper, nothing more.  So
you need not trouble yourself any longer to feign the love you
cannot feel:  I will exact no more heartless caresses from you, nor
offer nor endure them either.  I will not be mocked with the empty
husk of conjugal endearments, when you have given the substance to
another!'
'Very good, if you please.  We shall see who will tire first, my
lady.'
'If I tire, it will be of living in the world with you:  not of
living without your mockery of love.  When you tire of your sinful
ways, and show yourself truly repentant, I will forgive you, and,
perhaps, try to love you again, though that will be hard indeed.'
'Humph! and meantime you will go and talk me over to Mrs. Hargrave,
and write long letters to aunt Maxwell to complain of the wicked
wretch you have married?'
'I shall complain to no one.  Hitherto I have struggled hard to
hide your vices from every eye, and invest you with virtues you
never possessed; but now you must look to yourself.'
I left him muttering bad language to himself, and went up-stairs.
