
'You are poorly, ma'am,' said Rachel, surveying me with deep
anxiety.
'It is too true, Rachel,' said I, answering her sad looks rather
than her words.
'I knew it, or I wouldn't have mentioned such a thing.'
'But don't you trouble yourself about it,' said I, kissing her
pale, time-wasted cheek.  'I can bear it better than you imagine.'
'Yes, you were always for "bearing."  But if I was you I wouldn't
bear it; I'd give way to it, and cry right hard! and I'd talk too,
I just would - I'd let him know what it was to - '
'I have talked,' said I; 'I've said enough.'
'Then I'd cry,' persisted she.  'I wouldn't look so white and so
calm, and burst my heart with keeping it in.'
'I have cried,' said I, smiling, in spite of my misery; 'and I am
calm now, really:  so don't discompose me again, nurse:  let us say
no more about it, and don't mention it to the servants.  There, you
may go now.  Good-night; and don't disturb your rest for me:  I
shall sleep well - if I can.'
Notwithstanding this resolution, I found my bed so intolerable
that, before two o'clock, I rose, and lighting my candle by the
rushlight that was still burning, I got my desk and sat down in my
dressing-gown to recount the events of the past evening.  It was
better to be so occupied than to be lying in bed torturing my brain
with recollections of the far past and anticipations of the
dreadful future.  I have found relief in describing the very
circumstances that have destroyed my peace, as well as the little
trivial details attendant upon their discovery.  No sleep I could
have got this night would have done so much towards composing my
mind, and preparing me to meet the trials of the day.  I fancy so,
at least; and yet, when I cease writing, I find my head aches
terribly; and when I look into the glass, I am startled at my
haggard, worn appearance.
Rachel has been to dress me, and says I have had a sad night of it,
she can see.  Milicent has just looked in to ask me how I was.  I
told her I was better, but to excuse my appearance admitted I had
had a restless night.  I wish this day were over!  I shudder at the
thoughts of going down to breakfast.  How shall I encounter them
all?  Yet let me remember it is not I that am guilty:  I have no
cause to fear; and if they scorn me as a victim of their guilt, I
can pity their folly and despise their scorn.
CHAPTER XXXIV
Evening. - Breakfast passed well over:  I was calm and cool
throughout.  I answered composedly all inquiries respecting my
health; and whatever was unusual in my look or manner was generally
attributed to the trifling indisposition that had occasioned my
early retirement last night.  But how am I to get over the ten or
twelve days that must yet elapse before they go?  Yet why so long
for their departure?  When they are gone, how shall I get through
the months or years of my future life in company with that man - my
greatest enemy? for none could injure me as he has done.  Oh! when
I think how fondly, how foolishly I have loved him, how madly I
have trusted him, how constantly I have laboured, and studied, and
prayed, and struggled for his advantage; and how cruelly he has
trampled on my love, betrayed my trust, scorned my prayers and
tears, and efforts for his preservation, crushed my hopes,
destroyed my youth's best feelings, and doomed me to a life of
hopeless misery, as far as man can do it, it is not enough to say
that I no longer love my husband - I HATE him!  The word stares me
in the face like a guilty confession, but it is true:  I hate him -
I hate him!  But God have mercy on his miserable soul! and make him
see and feel his guilt - I ask no other vengeance!  If he could but
fully know and truly feel my wrongs I should be well avenged, and I
could freely pardon all; but he is so lost, so hardened in his
heartless depravity, that in this life I believe he never will.
But it is useless dwelling on this theme:  let me seek once more to
dissipate reflection in the minor details of passing events.
Mr. Hargrave has annoyed me all day long with his serious,
sympathising, and (as he thinks) unobtrusive politeness.  If it
were more obtrusive it would trouble me less, for then I could snub
him; but, as it is, he contrives to appear so really kind and
thoughtful that I cannot do so without rudeness and seeming
ingratitude.  I sometimes think I ought to give him credit for the
good feeling he simulates so well; and then again, I think it is my
duty to suspect him under the peculiar circumstances in which I am
placed.  His kindness may not all be feigned; but still, let not
the purest impulse of gratitude to him induce me to forget myself:
let me remember the game of chess, the expressions he used on the
occasion, and those indescribable looks of his, that so justly
roused my indignation, and I think I shall be safe enough.  I have
done well to record them so minutely.
I think he wishes to find an opportunity of speaking to me alone:
he has seemed to be on the watch all day; but I have taken care to
disappoint him - not that I fear anything he could say, but I have
trouble enough without the addition of his insulting consolations,
condolences, or whatever else he might attempt; and, for Milicent's
sake, I do not wish to quarrel with him.  He excused himself from
going out to shoot with the other gentlemen in the morning, under
the pretext of having letters to write; and instead of retiring for
that purpose into the library, he sent for his desk into the
morning-room, where I was seated with Milicent and Lady Lowborough.
They had betaken themselves to their work; I, less to divert my
mind than to deprecate conversation, had provided myself with a
book.  Milicent saw that I wished to be quiet, and accordingly let
me alone.  Annabella, doubtless, saw it too:  but that was no
reason why she should restrain her tongue, or curb her cheerful
spirits:  she accordingly chatted away, addressing herself almost
exclusively to me, and with the utmost assurance and familiarity,
growing the more animated and friendly the colder and briefer my
answers became.  Mr. Hargrave saw that I could ill endure it, and,
looking up from his desk, he answered her questions and
observations for me, as far as he could, and attempted to transfer
her social attentions from me to himself; but it would not do.
Perhaps she thought I had a headache, and could not bear to talk;
at any rate, she saw that her loquacious vivacity annoyed me, as I
could tell by the malicious pertinacity with which she persisted.
But I checked it effectually by putting into her hand the book I
had been trying to read, on the fly-leaf of which I had hastily
scribbled, -
'I am too well acquainted with your character and conduct to feel
any real friendship for you, and as I am without your talent for
dissimulation, I cannot assume the appearance of it.  I must,
therefore, beg that hereafter all familiar intercourse may cease
between us; and if I still continue to treat you with civility, as
if you were a woman worthy of consideration and respect, understand
that it is out of regard for your cousin Milicent's feelings, not
for yours.'
Upon perusing this she turned scarlet, and bit her lip.  Covertly
tearing away the leaf, she crumpled it up and put it in the fire,
and then employed herself in turning over the pages of the book,
and, really or apparently, perusing its contents.  In a little
while Milicent announced it her intention to repair to the nursery,
and asked if I would accompany her.
'Annabella will excuse us,' said she; 'she's busy reading.'
'No, I won't,' cried Annabella, suddenly looking up, and throwing
her book on the table; 'I want to speak to Helen a minute.  You may
go, Milicent, and she'll follow in a while.'  (Milicent went.)
'Will you oblige me, Helen?' continued she.
Her impudence astounded me; but I complied, and followed her into
the library.  She closed the door, and walked up to the fire.
'Who told you this?' said she.
'No one:  I am not incapable of seeing for myself.'
