
'Ah, you are suspicious!' cried she, smiling, with a gleam of hope.
Hitherto there had been a kind of desperation in her hardihood; now
she was evidently relieved.
'If I were suspicious,' I replied, 'I should have discovered your
infamy long before.  No, Lady Lowborough, I do not found my charge
upon suspicion.'
'On what do you found it, then?' said she, throwing herself into an
arm-chair, and stretching out her feet to the fender, with an
obvious effort to appear composed.
'I enjoy a moonlight ramble as well as you,' I answered, steadily
fixing my eyes upon her; 'and the shrubbery happens to be one of my
favourite resorts.'
She coloured again excessively, and remained silent, pressing her
finger against her teeth, and gazing into the fire.  I watched her
a few moments with a feeling of malevolent gratification; then,
moving towards the door, I calmly asked if she had anything more to
say.
'Yes, yes!' cried she eagerly, starting up from her reclining
posture.  'I want to know if you will tell Lord Lowborough?'
'Suppose I do?'
'Well, if you are disposed to publish the matter, I cannot dissuade
you, of course - but there will be terrible work if you do - and if
you don't, I shall think you the most generous of mortal beings -
and if there is anything in the world I can do for you - anything
short of - ' she hesitated.
'Short of renouncing your guilty connection with my husband, I
suppose you mean?' said I.
She paused, in evident disconcertion and perplexity, mingled with
anger she dared not show.
'I cannot renounce what is dearer than life,' she muttered, in a
low, hurried tone.  Then, suddenly raising her head and fixing her
gleaming eyes upon me, she continued earnestly:  'But, Helen - or
Mrs. Huntingdon, or whatever you would have me call you - will you
tell him?  If you are generous, here is a fitting opportunity for
the exercise of your magnanimity:  if you are proud, here am I -
your rival - ready to acknowledge myself your debtor for an act of
the most noble forbearance.'
'I shall not tell him.'
'You will not!' cried she, delightedly.  'Accept my sincere thanks,
then!'
She sprang up, and offered me her hand.  I drew back.
'Give me no thanks; it is not for your sake that I refrain.
Neither is it an act of any forbearance:  I have no wish to publish
your shame.  I should be sorry to distress your husband with the
knowledge of it.'
'And Milicent? will you tell her?'
'No:  on the contrary, I shall do my utmost to conceal it from her.
I would not for much that she should know the infamy and disgrace
of her relation!'
'You use hard words, Mrs. Huntingdon, but I can pardon you.'
'And now, Lady Lowborough,' continued I, 'let me counsel you to
leave this house as soon as possible.  You must be aware that your
continuance here is excessively disagreeable to me - not for Mr.
Huntingdon's sake,' said I, observing the dawn of a malicious smile
of triumph on her face - 'you are welcome to him, if you like him,
as far as I am concerned - but because it is painful to be always
disguising my true sentiments respecting you, and straining to keep
up an appearance of civility and respect towards one for whom I
have not the most distant shadow of esteem; and because, if you
stay, your conduct cannot possibly remain concealed much longer
from the only two persons in the house who do not know it already.
And, for your husband's sake, Annabella, and even for your own, I
wish - I earnestly advise and entreat you to break off this
unlawful connection at once, and return to your duty while you may,
before the dreadful consequences - '
'Yes, yes, of course,' said she, interrupting me with a gesture of
impatience.  'But I cannot go, Helen, before the time appointed for
our departure.  What possible pretext could I frame for such a
thing?  Whether I proposed going back alone - which Lowborough
would not hear of - or taking him with me, the very circumstance
itself would be certain to excite suspicion - and when our visit is
so nearly at an end too - little more than a week - surely you can
endure my presence so long!  I will not annoy you with any more of
my friendly impertinences.'
'Well, I have nothing more to say to you.'
'Have you mentioned this affair to Huntingdon?' asked she, as I was
leaving the room.
'How dare you mention his name to me!' was the only answer I gave.
No words have passed between us since, but such as outward decency
or pure necessity demanded.
