
In the course of the morning I drove over to the Grove with the two
ladies, to give Milicent an opportunity for bidding farewell to her
mother and sister.  They persuaded her to stay with them the rest
of the day, Mrs. Hargrave promising to bring her back in the
evening and remain till the party broke up on the morrow.
Consequently, Lady Lowborough and I had the pleasure of returning
TETE-E-TETE in the carriage together.  For the first mile or two we
kept silence, I looking out of my window, and she leaning back in
her corner.  But I was not going to restrict myself to any
particular position for her; when I was tired of leaning forward,
with the cold, raw wind in my face, and surveying the russet hedges
and the damp, tangled grass of their banks, I gave it up and leant
back too.  With her usual impudence, my companion then made some
attempts to get up a conversation; but the monosyllables 'yes,' or
'no' or 'humph,' were the utmost her several remarks could elicit
from me.  At last, on her asking my opinion upon some immaterial
point of discussion, I answered, - 'Why do you wish to talk to me,
Lady Lowborough?  You must know what I think of you.'
'Well, if you will be so bitter against me,' replied she, 'I can't
help it; but I'm not going to sulk for anybody.'
Our short drive was now at an end.  As soon as the carriage door
was opened, she sprang out, and went down the park to meet the
gentlemen, who were just returning from the woods.  Of course I did
not follow.
But I had not done with her impudence yet:  after dinner, I retired
to the drawing-room, as usual, and she accompanied me, but I had
the two children with me, and I gave them my whole attention, and
determined to keep them till the gentlemen came, or till Milicent
arrived with her mother.  Little Helen, however, was soon tired of
playing, and insisted upon going to sleep; and while I sat on the
sofa with her on my knee, and Arthur seated beside me, gently
playing with her soft, flaxen hair, Lady Lowborough composedly came
and placed herself on the other side.
'To-morrow, Mrs. Huntingdon,' said she, 'you will be delivered from
my presence, which, no doubt, you will be very glad of - it is
natural you should; but do you know I have rendered you a great
service?  Shall I tell you what it is?'
'I shall be glad to hear of any service you have rendered me,' said
I, determined to be calm, for I knew by the tone of her voice she
wanted to provoke me.
'Well,' resumed she, 'have you not observed the salutary change in
Mr. Huntingdon?  Don't you see what a sober, temperate man he is
become?  You saw with regret the sad habits he was contracting, I
know:  and I know you did your utmost to deliver him from them, but
without success, until I came to your assistance.  I told him in
few words that I could not bear to see him degrade himself so, and
that I should cease to - no matter what I told him, but you see the
reformation I have wrought; and you ought to thank me for it.'
I rose and rang for the nurse.
'But I desire no thanks,' she continued; 'all the return I ask is,
that you will take care of him when I am gone, and not, by
harshness and neglect, drive him back to his old courses.'
I was almost sick with passion, but Rachel was now at the door.  I
pointed to the children, for I could not trust myself to speak:
she took them away, and I followed.
'Will you, Helen?' continued the speaker.
I gave her a look that blighted the malicious smile on her face, or
checked it, at least for a moment, and departed.  In the ante-room
I met Mr. Hargrave.  He saw I was in no humour to be spoken to, and
suffered me to pass without a word; but when, after a few minutes'
seclusion in the library, I had regained my composure, and was
returning to join Mrs. Hargrave and Milicent, whom I had just heard
come downstairs and go into the drawing-room, I found him there
still lingering in the dimly-lighted apartment, and evidently
waiting for me.
'Mrs. Huntingdon,' said he as I passed, 'will you allow me one
word?'
'What is it then? be quick, if you please.'
'I offended you this morning; and I cannot live under your
displeasure.'
'Then go, and sin no more,' replied I, turning away.
'No, no!' said he, hastily, setting himself before me.  'Pardon me,
but I must have your forgiveness.  I leave you to-morrow, and I may
not have an opportunity of speaking to you again.  I was wrong to
forget myself and you, as I did; but let me implore you to forget
and forgive my rash presumption, and think of me as if those words
had never been spoken; for, believe me, I regret them deeply, and
the loss of your esteem is too severe a penalty:  I cannot bear
it.'
'Forgetfulness is not to be purchased with a wish; and I cannot
bestow my esteem on all who desire it, unless they deserve it too.'
'I shall think my life well spent in labouring to deserve it, if
you will but pardon this offence - will you?'
'Yes.'
'Yes! but that is coldly spoken.  Give me your hand and I'll
believe you.  You won't?  Then, Mrs. Huntingdon, you do not forgive
me!'
'Yes; here it is, and my forgiveness with it:  only, SIN NO MORE.'
He pressed my cold hand with sentimental fervour, but said nothing,
and stood aside to let me pass into the room, where all the company
were now assembled.  Mr. Grimsby was seated near the door:  on
seeing me enter, almost immediately followed by Hargrave, he leered
at me with a glance of intolerable significance, as I passed.  I
looked him in the face, till he sullenly turned away, if not
ashamed, at least confounded for the moment.  Meantime Hattersley
had seized Hargrave by the arm, and was whispering something in his
ear - some coarse joke, no doubt, for the latter neither laughed
nor spoke in answer, but, turning from him with a slight curl of
the lip, disengaged himself and went to his mother, who was telling
Lord Lowborough how many reasons she had to be proud of her son.
Thank heaven, they are all going to-morrow.
