
Happily, there were none of Arthur's 'friends' invited to Grassdale
last autumn:  he took himself off to visit some of them instead.  I
wish he would always do so, and I wish his friends were numerous
and loving enough to keep him amongst them all the year round.  Mr.
Hargrave, considerably to my annoyance, did not go with him; but I
think I have done with that gentleman at last.
For seven or eight months he behaved so remarkably well, and
managed so skilfully too, that I was almost completely off my
guard, and was really beginning to look upon him as a friend, and
even to treat him as such, with certain prudent restrictions (which
I deemed scarcely necessary); when, presuming upon my unsuspecting
kindness, he thought he might venture to overstep the bounds of
decent moderation and propriety that had so long restrained him.
It was on a pleasant evening at the close of May:  I was wandering
in the park, and he, on seeing me there as he rode past, made bold
to enter and approach me, dismounting and leaving his horse at the
gate.  This was the first time he had ventured to come within its
inclosure since I had been left alone, without the sanction of his
mother's or sister's company, or at least the excuse of a message
from them.  But he managed to appear so calm and easy, so
respectful and self-possessed in his friendliness, that, though a
little surprised, I was neither alarmed nor offended at the unusual
liberty, and he walked with me under the ash-trees and by the
water-side, and talked, with considerable animation, good taste,
and intelligence, on many subjects, before I began to think about
getting rid of him.  Then, after a pause, during which we both
stood gazing on the calm, blue water - I revolving in my mind the
best means of politely dismissing my companion, he, no doubt,
pondering other matters equally alien to the sweet sights and
sounds that alone were present to his senses, - he suddenly
electrified me by beginning, in a peculiar tone, low, soft, but
perfectly distinct, to pour forth the most unequivocal expressions
of earnest and passionate love; pleading his cause with all the
bold yet artful eloquence he could summon to his aid.  But I cut
short his appeal, and repulsed him so determinately, so decidedly,
and with such a mixture of scornful indignation, tempered with
cool, dispassionate sorrow and pity for his benighted mind, that he
withdrew, astonished, mortified, and discomforted; and, a few days
after, I heard that he had departed for London.  He returned,
however, in eight or nine weeks, and did not entirely keep aloof
from me, but comported himself in so remarkable a manner that his
quick-sighted sister could not fail to notice the change.
'What have you done to Walter, Mrs. Huntingdon?' said she one
morning, when I had called at the Grove, and he had just left the
room after exchanging a few words of the coldest civility.  'He has
been so extremely ceremonious and stately of late, I can't imagine
what it is all about, unless you have desperately offended him.
Tell me what it is, that I may be your mediator, and make you
friends again.'
'I have done nothing willingly to offend him,' said I.  'If he is
offended, he can best tell you himself what it is about.'
'I'll ask him,' cried the giddy girl, springing up and putting her
head out of the window:  'he's only in the garden - Walter!'
'No, no, Esther! you will seriously displease me if you do; and I
shall leave you immediately, and not come again for months -
perhaps years.'
'Did you call, Esther?' said her brother, approaching the window
from without.
'Yes; I wanted to ask you - '
'Good-morning, Esther,' said I, talking her hand and giving it a
severe squeeze.
'To ask you,' continued she, 'to get me a rose for Mrs.
Huntingdon.'  He departed.  'Mrs. Huntingdon,' she exclaimed,
turning to me and still holding me fast by the hand, 'I'm quite
shocked at you - you're just as angry, and distant, and cold as he
is:  and I'm determined you shall be as good friends as ever before
you go.'
'Esther, how can you be so rude!' cried Mrs. Hargrave, who was
seated gravely knitting in her easy-chair.  'Surely, you never will
learn to conduct yourself like a lady!'
'Well, mamma, you said yourself - '  But the young lady was
silenced by the uplifted finger of her mamma, accompanied with a
very stern shake of the head.
'Isn't she cross?' whispered she to me; but, before I could add my
share of reproof, Mr. Hargrave reappeared at the window with a
beautiful moss-rose in his hand.
'Here, Esther, I've brought you the rose,' said he, extending it
towards her.
'Give it her yourself, you blockhead!' cried she, recoiling with a
spring from between us.
'Mrs. Huntingdon would rather receive it from you,' replied he, in
a very serious tone, but lowering his voice that his mother might
not hear.  His sister took the rose and gave it to me.
'My brother's compliments, Mrs. Huntingdon, and he hopes you and he
will come to a better understanding by-and-by.  Will that do,
Walter?' added the saucy girl, turning to him and putting her arm
round his neck, as he stood leaning upon the sill of the window -
'or should I have said that you are sorry you were so touchy? or
that you hope she will pardon your offence?'
'You silly girl! you don't know what you are talking about,'
replied he gravely.
'Indeed I don't:  for I'm quite in the dark!'
'Now, Esther,' interposed Mrs. Hargrave, who, if equally benighted
on the subject of our estrangement, saw at least that her daughter
was behaving very improperly, 'I must insist upon your leaving the
room!'
'Pray don't, Mrs. Hargrave, for I'm going to leave it myself,' said
I, and immediately made my adieux.
About a week after Mr. Hargrave brought his sister to see me.  He
conducted himself, at first, with his usual cold, distant, half-
stately, half-melancholy, altogether injured air; but Esther made
no remark upon it this time:  she had evidently been schooled into
better manners.  She talked to me, and laughed and romped with
little Arthur, her loved and loving playmate.  He, somewhat to my
discomfort, enticed her from the room to have a run in the hall,
and thence into the garden.  I got up to stir the fire.  Mr.
Hargrave asked if I felt cold, and shut the door - a very
unseasonable piece of officiousness, for I had meditated following
the noisy playfellows if they did not speedily return.  He then
took the liberty of walking up to the fire himself, and asking me
if I were aware that Mr. Huntingdon was now at the seat of Lord
Lowborough, and likely to continue there some time.
'No; but it's no matter,' I answered carelessly; and if my cheek
glowed like fire, it was rather at the question than the
information it conveyed.
'You don't object to it?' he said.
'Not at all, if Lord Lowborough likes his company.'
