
'You have no love left for him, then?'
'Not the least.'
'I knew that - I knew you were too high-minded and pure in your own
nature to continue to regard one so utterly false and polluted with
any feelings but those of indignation and scornful abhorrence!'
'Is he not your friend?' said I, turning my eyes from the fire to
his face, with perhaps a slight touch of those feelings he assigned
to another.
'He was,' replied he, with the same calm gravity as before; 'but do
not wrong me by supposing that I could continue my friendship and
esteem to a man who could so infamously, so impiously forsake and
injure one so transcendently - well, I won't speak of it.  But tell
me, do you never think of revenge?'
'Revenge!  No - what good would that do? - it would make him no
better, and me no happier.'
'I don't know how to talk to you, Mrs. Huntingdon,' said he,
smiling; 'you are only half a woman - your nature must be half
human, half angelic.  Such goodness overawes me; I don't know what
to make of it.'
'Then, sir, I fear you must be very much worse than you should be,
if I, a mere ordinary mortal, am, by your own confession, so vastly
your superior; and since there exists so little sympathy between
us, I think we had better each look out for some more congenial
companion.'  And forthwith moving to the window, I began to look
out for my little son and his gay young friend.
'No, I am the ordinary mortal, I maintain,' replied Mr. Hargrave.
'I will not allow myself to be worse than my fellows; but you,
Madam - I equally maintain there is nobody like you.  But are you
happy?' he asked in a serious tone.
'As happy as some others, I suppose.'
'Are you as happy as you desire to be?'
'No one is so blest as that comes to on this side eternity.'
'One thing I know,' returned he, with a deep sad sigh; 'you are
immeasurably happier than I am.'
'I am very sorry for you, then,' I could not help replying.
'Are you, indeed?  No, for if you were you would be glad to relieve
me.'
'And so I should if I could do so without injuring myself or any
other.'
'And can you suppose that I should wish you to injure yourself?
No:  on the contrary, it is your own happiness I long for more than
mine.  You are miserable now, Mrs. Huntingdon,' continued he,
looking me boldly in the face.  'You do not complain, but I see -
and feel - and know that you are miserable - and must remain so as
long as you keep those walls of impenetrable ice about your still
warm and palpitating heart; and I am miserable, too.  Deign to
smile on me and I am happy:  trust me, and you shall be happy also,
for if you are a woman I can make you so - and I will do it in
spite of yourself!' he muttered between his teeth; 'and as for
others, the question is between ourselves alone:  you cannot injure
your husband, you know, and no one else has any concern in the
matter.'
'I have a son, Mr. Hargrave, and you have a mother,' said I,
retiring from the window, whither he had followed me.
'They need not know,' he began; but before anything more could be
said on either side, Esther and Arthur re-entered the room.  The
former glanced at Walter's flushed, excited countenance, and then
at mine - a little flushed and excited too, I daresay, though from
far different causes.  She must have thought we had been
quarrelling desperately, and was evidently perplexed and disturbed
at the circumstance; but she was too polite or too much afraid of
her brother's anger to refer to it.  She seated herself on the
sofa, and putting back her bright, golden ringlets, that were
scattered in wild profusion over her face, she immediately began to
talk about the garden and her little playfellow, and continued to
chatter away in her usual strain till her brother summoned her to
depart.
'If I have spoken too warmly, forgive me,' he murmured on taking
his leave, 'or I shall never forgive myself.'  Esther smiled and
glanced at me:  I merely bowed, and her countenance fell.  She
thought it a poor return for Walter's generous concession, and was
disappointed in her friend.  Poor child, she little knows the world
she lives in!
Mr. Hargrave had not an opportunity of meeting me again in private
for several weeks after this; but when he did meet me there was
less of pride and more of touching melancholy in his manner than
before.  Oh, how he annoyed me!  I was obliged at last almost
entirely to remit my visits to the Grove, at the expense of deeply
offending Mrs. Hargrave and seriously afflicting poor Esther, who
really values my society for want of better, and who ought not to
suffer for the fault of her brother.  But that indefatigable foe
was not yet vanquished:  he seemed to be always on the watch.  I
frequently saw him riding lingeringly past the premises, looking
searchingly round him as he went - or, if I did not, Rachel did.
That sharp-sighted woman soon guessed how matters stood between us,
and descrying the enemy's movements from her elevation at the
nursery-window, she would give me a quiet intimation if she saw me
preparing for a walk when she had reason to believe he was about,
or to think it likely that he would meet or overtake me in the way
I meant to traverse.  I would then defer my ramble, or confine
myself for that day to the park and gardens, or, if the proposed
excursion was a matter of importance, such as a visit to the sick
or afflicted, I would take Rachel with me, and then I was never
molested.
But one mild, sunshiny day, early in November, I had ventured forth
alone to visit the village school and a few of the poor tenants,
and on my return I was alarmed at the clatter of a horse's feet
behind me, approaching at a rapid, steady trot.  There was no stile
or gap at hand by which I could escape into the fields, so I walked
quietly on, saying to myself, 'It may not be he after all; and if
it is, and if he do annoy me, it shall be for the last time, I am
determined, if there be power in words and looks against cool
impudence and mawkish sentimentality so inexhaustible as his.'
The horse soon overtook me, and was reined up close beside me.  It
was Mr. Hargrave.  He greeted me with a smile intended to be soft
and melancholy, but his triumphant satisfaction at having caught me
at last so shone through that it was quite a failure.  After
briefly answering his salutation and inquiring after the ladies at
the Grove, I turned away and walked on; but he followed and kept
his horse at my side:  it was evident he intended to be my
companion all the way.
'Well!  I don't much care.  If you want another rebuff, take it -
and welcome,' was my inward remark.  'Now, sir, what next?'
This question, though unspoken, was not long unanswered; after a
few passing observations upon indifferent subjects, he began in
solemn tones the following appeal to my humanity:-
