
'It will be four years next April since I first saw you, Mrs.
Huntingdon - you may have forgotten the circumstance, but I never
can.  I admired you then most deeply, but I dared not love you.  In
the following autumn I saw so much of your perfections that I could
not fail to love you, though I dared not show it.  For upwards of
three years I have endured a perfect martyrdom.  From the anguish
of suppressed emotions, intense and fruitless longings, silent
sorrow, crushed hopes, and trampled affections, I have suffered
more than I can tell, or you imagine - and you were the cause of
it, and not altogether the innocent cause.  My youth is wasting
away; my prospects are darkened; my life is a desolate blank; I
have no rest day or night:  I am become a burden to myself and
others, and you might save me by a word - a glance, and will not do
it - is this right?'
'In the first place, I don't believe you,' answered I; 'in the
second, if you will be such a fool, I can't hinder it.'
'If you affect,' replied he, earnestly, 'to regard as folly the
best, the strongest, the most godlike impulses of our nature, I
don't believe you.  I know you are not the heartless, icy being you
pretend to be - you had a heart once, and gave it to your husband.
When you found him utterly unworthy of the treasure, you reclaimed
it; and you will not pretend that you loved that sensual, earthly-
minded profligate so deeply, so devotedly, that you can never love
another?  I know that there are feelings in your nature that have
never yet been called forth; I know, too, that in your present
neglected lonely state you are and must be miserable.  You have it
in your power to raise two human beings from a state of actual
suffering to such unspeakable beatitude as only generous, noble,
self-forgetting love can give (for you can love me if you will);
you may tell me that you scorn and detest me, but, since you have
set me the example of plain speaking, I will answer that I do not
believe you.  But you will not do it! you choose rather to leave us
miserable; and you coolly tell me it is the will of God that we
should remain so.  You may call this religion, but I call it wild
fanaticism!'
'There is another life both for you and for me,' said I.  'If it be
the will of God that we should sow in tears now, it is only that we
may reap in joy hereafter.  It is His will that we should not
injure others by the gratification of our own earthly passions; and
you have a mother, and sisters, and friends who would be seriously
injured by your disgrace; and I, too, have friends, whose peace of
mind shall never be sacrificed to my enjoyment, or yours either,
with my consent; and if I were alone in the world, I have still my
God and my religion, and I would sooner die than disgrace my
calling and break my faith with heaven to obtain a few brief years
of false and fleeting happiness - happiness sure to end in misery
even here - for myself or any other!'
'There need be no disgrace, no misery or sacrifice in any quarter,'
persisted he.  'I do not ask you to leave your home or defy the
world's opinion.'  But I need not repeat all his arguments.  I
refuted them to the best of my power; but that power was
provokingly small, at the moment, for I was too much flurried with
indignation - and even shame - that he should thus dare to address
me, to retain sufficient command of thought and language to enable
me adequately to contend against his powerful sophistries.
Finding, however, that he could not be silenced by reason, and even
covertly exulted in his seeming advantage, and ventured to deride
those assertions I had not the coolness to prove, I changed my
course and tried another plan.
'Do you really love me?' said I, seriously, pausing and looking him
calmly in the face.
'Do I love you!' cried he.
'Truly?' I demanded.
His countenance brightened; he thought his triumph was at hand.  He
commenced a passionate protestation of the truth and fervour of his
attachment, which I cut short by another question:-
'But is it not a selfish love?  Have you enough disinterested
affection to enable you to sacrifice your own pleasure to mine?'
'I would give my life to serve you.'
'I don't want your life; but have you enough real sympathy for my
afflictions to induce you to make an effort to relieve them, at the
risk of a little discomfort to yourself?'
'Try me, and see.'
'If you have, never mention this subject again.  You cannot recur
to it in any way without doubling the weight of those sufferings
you so feelingly deplore.  I have nothing left me but the solace of
a good conscience and a hopeful trust in heaven, and you labour
continually to rob me of these.  If you persist, I must regard you
as my deadliest foe.'
'But hear me a moment - '
'No, sir!  You said you would give your life to serve me; I only
ask your silence on one particular point.  I have spoken plainly;
and what I say I mean.  If you torment me in this way any more, I
must conclude that your protestations are entirely false, and that
you hate me in your heart as fervently as you profess to love me!'
He bit his lip, and bent his eyes upon the ground in silence for a
while.
'Then I must leave you,' said he at length, looking steadily upon
me, as if with the last hope of detecting some token of
irrepressible anguish or dismay awakened by those solemn words.  'I
must leave you.  I cannot live here, and be for ever silent on the
all-absorbing subject of my thoughts and wishes.'
'Formerly, I believe, you spent but little of your time at home,' I
answered; 'it will do you no harm to absent yourself again, for a
while - if that be really necessary.'
'If that be really possible,' he muttered; 'and can you bid me go
so coolly?  Do you really wish it?'
'Most certainly I do.  If you cannot see me without tormenting me
as you have lately done, I would gladly say farewell and never see
you more.'
He made no answer, but, bending from his horse, held out his hand
towards me.  I looked up at his face, and saw therein such a look
of genuine agony of soul, that, whether bitter disappointment, or
wounded pride, or lingering love, or burning wrath were uppermost,
I could not hesitate to put my hand in his as frankly as if I bade
a friend farewell.  He grasped it very hard, and immediately put
spurs to his horse and galloped away.  Very soon after, I learned
that he was gone to Paris, where he still is; and the longer he
stays there the better for me.
I thank God for this deliverance!
