
'I confess I was wrong,' continued I, without regarding this bitter
interruption; 'but whether want of courage or mistaken kindness was
the cause of my error, I think you blame me too severely.  I told
Lady Lowborough two weeks ago, the very hour she came, that I
should certainly think it my duty to inform you if she continued to
deceive you:  she gave me full liberty to do so if I should see
anything reprehensible or suspicious in her conduct; I have seen
nothing; and I trusted she had altered her course.'
He continued gazing from the window while I spoke, and did not
answer, but, stung by the recollections my words awakened, stamped
his foot upon the floor, ground his teeth, and corrugated his brow,
like one under the influence of acute physical pain.
'It was wrong, it was wrong!' he muttered at length.  'Nothing can
excuse it; nothing can atone for it, - for nothing can recall those
years of cursed credulity; nothing obliterate them! - nothing,
nothing!' he repeated in a whisper, whose despairing bitterness
precluded all resentment.
'When I put the case to myself, I own it was wrong,' I answered;
'but I can only now regret that I did not see it in this light
before, and that, as you say, nothing can recall the past.'
Something in my voice or in the spirit of this answer seemed to
alter his mood.  Turning towards me, and attentively surveying my
face by the dim light, he said, in a milder tone than he had yet
employed, - 'You, too, have suffered, I suppose.'
'I suffered much, at first.'
'When was that?'
'Two years ago; and two years hence you will be as calm as I am
now, and far, far happier, I trust, for you are a man, and free to
act as you please.'
Something like a smile, but a very bitter one, crossed his face for
a moment.
'You have not been happy, lately?' he said, with a kind of effort
to regain composure, and a determination to waive the further
discussion of his own calamity.
'Happy?' I repeated, almost provoked at such a question.  'Could I
be so, with such a husband?'
'I have noticed a change in your appearance since the first years
of your marriage,' pursued he:  'I observed it to - to that
infernal demon,' he muttered between his teeth; 'and he said it was
your own sour temper that was eating away your bloom:  it was
making you old and ugly before your time, and had already made his
fireside as comfortless as a convent cell.  You smile, Mrs.
Huntingdon; nothing moves you.  I wish my nature were as calm as
yours.'
'My nature was not originally calm,' said I.  'I have learned to
appear so by dint of hard lessons and many repeated efforts.'
At this juncture Mr. Hattersley burst into the room.
'Hallo, Lowborough!' he began - 'Oh! I beg your pardon,' he
exclaimed on seeing me.  'I didn't know it was A TETE-E-TETE.
Cheer up, man,' he continued, giving Lord Lowborough a thump on the
back, which caused the latter to recoil from him with looks of
ineffable disgust and irritation.  'Come, I want to speak with you
a bit.'
'Speak, then.'
'But I'm not sure it would be quite agreeable to the lady what I
have to say.'
'Then it would not be agreeable to me,' said his lordship, turning
to leave the room.
'Yes, it would,' cried the other, following him into the hall.  'If
you've the heart of a man, it would be the very ticket for you.
It's just this, my lad,' he continued, rather lowering his voice,
but not enough to prevent me from hearing every word he said,
though the half-closed door stood between us.  'I think you're an
ill-used man - nay, now, don't flare up; I don't want to offend
you:  it's only my rough way of talking.  I must speak right out,
you know, or else not at all; and I'm come - stop now! let me
explain - I'm come to offer you my services, for though Huntingdon
is my friend, he's a devilish scamp, as we all know, and I'll be
your friend for the nonce.  I know what it is you want, to make
matters straight:  it's just to exchange a shot with him, and then
you'll feel yourself all right again; and if an accident happens -
why, that'll be all right too, I daresay, to a desperate fellow
like you.  Come now, give me your hand, and don't look so black
upon it.  Name time and place, and I'll manage the rest.'
'That,' answered the more low, deliberate voice of Lord Lowborough,
'is just the remedy my own heart, or the devil within it, suggested
- to meet him, and not to part without blood.  Whether I or he
should fall, or both, it would be an inexpressible relief to me, if
- '
'Just so!  Well then, - '
'No!' exclaimed his lordship, with deep, determined emphasis.
'Though I hate him from my heart, and should rejoice at any
calamity that could befall him, I'll leave him to God; and though I
abhor my own life, I'll leave that, too, to Him that gave it.'
'But you see, in this case,' pleaded Hattersley -
'I'll not hear you!' exclaimed his companion, hastily turning away.
'Not another word!  I've enough to do against the fiend within me.'
'Then you're a white-livered fool, and I wash my hands of you,'
grumbled the tempter, as he swung himself round and departed.
