
Having formed this resolution, I immediately set to work to
accomplish it, I might possibly have been induced to wax cool upon
it afterwards, or perhaps to keep weighing the pros and cons in my
mind till the latter overbalanced the former, and I was driven to
relinquish the project altogether, or delay the execution of it to
an indefinite period, had not something occurred to confirm me in
that determination, to which I still adhere, which I still think I
did well to form, and shall do better to execute.
Since Lord Lowborough's departure I had regarded the library as
entirely my own, a secure retreat at all hours of the day.  None of
our gentlemen had the smallest pretensions to a literary taste,
except Mr. Hargrave; and he, at present, was quite contented with
the newspapers and periodicals of the day.  And if, by any chance,
he should look in here, I felt assured he would soon depart on
seeing me, for, instead of becoming less cool and distant towards
me, he had become decidedly more so since the departure of his
mother and sisters, which was just what I wished.  Here, then, I
set up my easel, and here I worked at my canvas from daylight till
dusk, with very little intermission, saving when pure necessity, or
my duties to little Arthur, called me away:  for I still thought
proper to devote some portion of every day exclusively to his
instruction and amusement.  But, contrary to my expectation, on the
third morning, while I was thus employed, Mr. Hargrave did look in,
and did not immediately withdraw on seeing me.  He apologized for
his intrusion, and said he was only come for a book; but when he
had got it, he condescended to cast a glance over my picture.
Being a man of taste, he had something to say on this subject as
well as another, and having modestly commented on it, without much
encouragement from me, he proceeded to expatiate on the art in
general.  Receiving no encouragement in that either, he dropped it,
but did not depart.
'You don't give us much of your company, Mrs. Huntingdon,' observed
he, after a brief pause, during which I went on coolly mixing and
tempering my colours; 'and I cannot wonder at it, for you must be
heartily sick of us all.  I myself am so thoroughly ashamed of my
companions, and so weary of their irrational conversation and
pursuits - now that there is no one to humanize them and keep them
in check, since you have justly abandoned us to our own devices -
that I think I shall presently withdraw from amongst them, probably
within this week; and I cannot suppose you will regret my
departure.'
He paused.  I did not answer.
'Probably,' he added, with a smile, 'your only regret on the
subject will be that I do not take all my companions along with me.
I flatter myself, at times, that though among them I am not of
them; but it is natural that you should be glad to get rid of me.
I may regret this, but I cannot blame you for it.'
'I shall not rejoice at your departure, for you can conduct
yourself like a gentleman,' said I, thinking it but right to make
some acknowledgment for his good behaviour; 'but I must confess I
shall rejoice to bid adieu. to the rest, inhospitable as it may
appear.'
'No one can blame you for such an avowal,' replied he gravely:
'not even the gentlemen themselves, I imagine.  I'll just tell
you,' he continued, as if actuated by a sudden resolution, 'what
was said last night in the dining-room, after you left us:  perhaps
you will not mind it, as you're so very philosophical on certain
points,' he added with a slight sneer.  'They were talking about
Lord Lowborough and his delectable lady, the cause of whose sudden
departure is no secret amongst them; and her character is so well
known to them all, that, nearly related to me as she is, I could
not attempt to defend it.  Curse me!' he muttered, par parenthese,
'if I don't have vengeance for this!  If the villain must disgrace
the family, must he blazon it abroad to every low-bred knave of his
acquaintance?  I beg your pardon, Mrs. Huntingdon.  Well, they were
talking of these things, and some of them remarked that, as she was
separated from her husband, he might see her again when he
pleased.'
'"Thank you," said he; "I've had enough of her for the present:
I'll not trouble to see her, unless she comes to me."
'"Then what do you mean to do, Huntingdon, when we're gone?" said
Ralph Hattersley.  "Do you mean to turn from the error of your
ways, and be a good husband, a good father, and so forth; as I do,
when I get shut of you and all these rollicking devils you call
your friends?  I think it's time; and your wife is fifty times too
good for you, you know - "
'And he added some praise of you, which you would not thank me for
repeating, nor him for uttering; proclaiming it aloud, as he did,
without delicacy or discrimination, in an audience where it seemed
profanation to utter your name:  himself utterly incapable of
understanding or appreciating your real excellences.  Huntingdon,
meanwhile, sat quietly drinking his wine, - or looking smilingly
into his glass and offering no interruption or reply, till
Hattersley shouted out, - "Do you hear me, man?"
'"Yes, go on," said he.
'"Nay, I've done," replied the other:  "I only want to know if you
intend to take my advice."
'"What advice?"
'"To turn over a new leaf, you double-dyed scoundrel," shouted
Ralph, "and beg your wife's pardon, and be a good boy for the
future."
'"My wife! what wife?  I have no wife," replied Huntingdon, looking
innocently up from his glass, "or if I have, look you, gentlemen:
I value her so highly that any one among you, that can fancy her,
may have her and welcome:  you may, by Jove, and my blessing into
the bargain!"
'I - hem - someone asked if he really meant what he said; upon
which he solemnly swore he did, and no mistake.  What do you think
of that, Mrs. Huntingdon?' asked Mr. Hargrave, after a short pause,
during which I had felt he was keenly examining my half-averted
face.
'I say,' replied I, calmly, 'that what he prizes so lightly will
not be long in his possession.'
'You cannot mean that you will break your heart and die for the
detestable conduct of an infamous villain like that!'
'By no means:  my heart is too thoroughly dried to be broken in a
hurry, and I mean to live as long as I can.'
'Will you leave him then?'
'Yes.'
'When:  and how?' asked he, eagerly.
'When I am ready, and how I can manage it most effectually.'
'But your child?'
'My child goes with me.'
