
'He will not allow it.'
'I shall not ask him.'
'Ah, then, it is a secret flight you meditate! but with whom, Mrs.
Huntingdon?'
'With my son:  and possibly, his nurse.'
'Alone - and unprotected!  But where can you go? what can you do?
He will follow you and bring you back.'
'I have laid my plans too well for that.  Let me once get clear of
Grassdale, and I shall consider myself safe.'
Mr. Hargrave advanced one step towards me, looked me in the face,
and drew in his breath to speak; but that look, that heightened
colour, that sudden sparkle of the eye, made my blood rise in
wrath:  I abruptly turned away, and, snatching up my brush, began
to dash away at my canvas with rather too much energy for the good
of the picture.
'Mrs. Huntingdon,' said he with bitter solemnity, 'you are cruel -
cruel to me - cruel to yourself.'
'Mr. Hargrave, remember your promise.'
'I must speak:  my heart will burst if I don't!  I have been silent
long enough, and you must hear me!' cried he, boldly intercepting
my retreat to the door.  'You tell me you owe no allegiance to your
husband; he openly declares himself weary of you, and calmly gives
you up to anybody that will take you; you are about to leave him;
no one will believe that you go alone; all the world will say, "She
has left him at last, and who can wonder at it?  Few can blame her,
fewer still can pity him; but who is the companion of her flight?"
Thus you will have no credit for your virtue (if you call it such):
even your best friends will not believe in it; because it is
monstrous, and not to be credited but by those who suffer, from the
effects of it, such cruel torments that they know it to be indeed
reality.  But what can you do in the cold, rough world alone? you,
a young and inexperienced woman, delicately nurtured, and utterly -
'
'In a word, you would advise me to stay where I am,' interrupted I.
'Well, I'll see about it.'
'By all means, leave him!' cried he earnestly; 'but NOT alone!
Helen! let me protect you!'
'Never! while heaven spares my reason,' replied I, snatching away
the hand he had presumed to seize and press between his own.  But
he was in for it now; he had fairly broken the barrier:  he was
completely roused, and determined to hazard all for victory.
'I must not be denied!' exclaimed he, vehemently; and seizing both
my hands, he held them very tight, but dropped upon his knee, and
looked up in my face with a half-imploring, half-imperious gaze.
'You have no reason now:  you are flying in the face of heaven's
decrees.  God has designed me to be your comfort and protector - I
feel it, I know it as certainly as if a voice from heaven declared,
"Ye twain shall be one flesh" - and you spurn me from you - '
'Let me go, Mr. Hargrave!' said I, sternly.  But he only tightened
his grasp.
'Let me go!' I repeated, quivering with indignation.
His face was almost opposite the window as he knelt.  With a slight
start, I saw him glance towards it; and then a gleam of malicious
triumph lit up his countenance.  Looking over my shoulder, I beheld
a shadow just retiring round the corner.
'That is Grimsby,' said he deliberately.  'He will report what he
has seen to Huntingdon and all the rest, with such embellishments
as he thinks proper.  He has no love for you, Mrs. Huntingdon - no
reverence for your sex, no belief in virtue, no admiration for its
image.  He will give such a version of this story as will leave no
doubt at all about your character, in the minds of those who hear
it.  Your fair fame is gone; and nothing that I or you can say can
ever retrieve it.  But give me the power to protect you, and show
me the villain that dares to insult!'
'No one has ever dared to insult me as you are doing now!' said I,
at length releasing my hands, and recoiling from him.
'I do not insult you,' cried he:  'I worship you.  You are my
angel, my divinity!  I lay my powers at your feet, and you must and
shall accept them!' he exclaimed, impetuously starting to his feet.
'I will be your consoler and defender! and if your conscience
upbraid you for it, say I overcame you, and you could not choose
but yield!'
I never saw a man go terribly excited.  He precipitated himself
towards me.  I snatched up my palette-knife and held it against
him.  This startled him:  he stood and gazed at me in astonishment;
I daresay I looked as fierce and resolute as he.  I moved to the
bell, and put my hand upon the cord.  This tamed him still more.
With a half-authoritative, half-deprecating wave of the hand, he
sought to deter me from ringing.
'Stand off, then!' said I; he stepped back.  'And listen to me.  I
don't like you,' I continued, as deliberately and emphatically as I
could, to give the greater efficacy to my words; 'and if I were
divorced from my husband, or if he were dead, I would not marry
you.  There now!  I hope you're satisfied.'
His face grew blanched with anger.
'I am satisfied,' he replied, with bitter emphasis, 'that you are
the most cold-hearted, unnatural, ungrateful woman I ever yet
beheld!'
'Ungrateful, sir?'
