
'Ungrateful.'
'No, Mr. Hargrave, I am not.  For all the good you ever did me, or
ever wished to do, I most sincerely thank you:  for all the evil
you have done me, and all you would have done, I pray God to pardon
you, and make you of a better mind.'  Here the door was thrown
open, and Messrs. Huntingdon and Hattersley appeared without.  The
latter remained in the hall, busy with his ramrod and his gun; the
former walked in, and stood with his back to the fire, surveying
Mr. Hargrave and me, particularly the former, with a smile of
insupportable meaning, accompanied as it was by the impudence of
his brazen brow, and the sly, malicious, twinkle of his eye.
'Well, sir?' said Hargrave, interrogatively, and with the air of
one prepared to stand on the defensive.
'Well, sir,' returned his host.
'We want to know if you are at liberty to join us in a go at the
pheasants, Walter,' interposed Hattersley from without.  'Come!
there shall be nothing shot besides, except a puss or two; I'll
vouch for that.'
Walter did not answer, but walked to the window to collect his
faculties.  Arthur uttered a low whistle, and followed him with his
eyes.  A slight flush of anger rose to Hargrave's cheek; but in a
moment he turned calmly round, and said carelessly:
'I came here to bid farewell to Mrs. Huntingdon, and tell her I
must go to-morrow.'
'Humph!  You're mighty sudden in your resolution.  What takes you
off so soon, may I ask?'
'Business,' returned he, repelling the other's incredulous sneer
with a glance of scornful defiance.
'Very good,' was the reply; and Hargrave walked away.  Thereupon
Mr. Huntingdon, gathering his coat-laps under his arms, and setting
his shoulder against the mantel-piece, turned to me, and,
addressing me in a low voice, scarcely above his breath, poured
forth a volley of the vilest and grossest abuse it was possible for
the imagination to conceive or the tongue to utter.  I did not
attempt to interrupt him; but my spirit kindled within me, and when
he had done, I replied, 'If your accusation were true, Mr.
Huntingdon, how dare you blame me?'
'She's hit it, by Jove!' cried Hattersley, rearing his gun against
the wall; and, stepping into the room, he took his precious friend
by the arm, and attempted to drag him away.  'Come, my lad,' he
muttered; 'true or false, you've no right to blame her, you know,
nor him either; after what you said last night.  So come along.'
There was something implied here that I could not endure.
'Dare you suspect me, Mr. Hattersley?' said I, almost beside myself
with fury.
'Nay, nay, I suspect nobody.  It's all right, it's all right.  So
come along, Huntingdon, you blackguard.'
'She can't deny it!' cried the gentleman thus addressed, grinning
in mingled rage and triumph.  'She can't deny it if her life
depended on it!' and muttering some more abusive language, he
walked into the hall, and took up his hat and gun from the table.
'I scorn to justify myself to you!' said I.  'But you,' turning to
Hattersley, 'if you presume to have any doubts on the subject, ask
Mr. Hargrave.'
At this they simultaneously burst into a rude laugh that made my
whole frame tingle to the fingers' ends.
'Where is he?  I'll ask him myself!' said I, advancing towards
them.
Suppressing a new burst of merriment, Hattersley pointed to the
outer door.  It was half open.  His brother-in-law was standing on
the front without.
'Mr. Hargrave, will you please to step this way?' said I.
He turned and looked at me in grave surprise.
'Step this way, if you please!' I repeated, in so determined a
manner that he could not, or did not choose to resist its
authority.  Somewhat reluctantly he ascended the steps and advanced
a pace or two into the hall.
'And tell those gentlemen,' I continued - 'these men, whether or
not I yielded to your solicitations.'
'I don't understand you, Mrs. Huntingdon.'
'You do understand me, sir; and I charge you, upon your honour as a
gentleman (if you have any), to answer truly.  Did I, or did I
not?'
