
'To do as he does.'
'Does he know better?'
'Perhaps he does; but that is nothing to you.'
'If he doesn't, you ought to tell him, mamma.'
'I have told him.'
The little moralist paused and pondered.  I tried in vain to divert
his mind from the subject.
'I'm sorry papa's wicked,' said he mournfully, at length, 'for I
don't want him to go to hell.'  And so saying he burst into tears.
I consoled him with the hope that perhaps his papa would alter and
become good before he died -; but is it not time to deliver him
from such a parent?
CHAPTER XL
January 10th, 1827. - While writing the above, yesterday evening, I
sat in the drawing-room.  Mr. Huntingdon was present, but, as I
thought, asleep on the sofa behind me.  He had risen, however,
unknown to me, and, actuated by some base spirit of curiosity, been
looking over my shoulder for I know not how long; for when I had
laid aside my pen, and was about to close the book, he suddenly
placed his hand upon it, and saying, - 'With your leave, my dear,
I'll have a look at this,' forcibly wrested it from me, and,
drawing a chair to the table, composedly sat down to examine it:
turning back leaf after leaf to find an explanation of what he had
read.  Unluckily for me, he was more sober that night than he
usually is at such an hour.
Of course I did not leave him to pursue this occupation in quiet:
I made several attempts to snatch the book from his hands, but he
held it too firmly for that; I upbraided him in bitterness and
scorn for his mean and dishonourable conduct, but that had no
effect upon him; and, finally, I extinguished both the candles, but
he only wheeled round to the fire, and raising a blaze sufficient
for his purposes, calmly continued the investigation.  I had
serious thoughts of getting a pitcher of water and extinguishing
that light too; but it was evident his curiosity was too keenly
excited to be quenched by that, and the more I manifested my
anxiety to baffle his scrutiny, the greater would be his
determination to persist in it besides it was too late.
'It seems very interesting, love,' said he, lifting his head and
turning to where I stood, wringing my hands in silent rage and
anguish; 'but it's rather long; I'll look at it some other time;
and meanwhile I'll trouble you for your keys, my dear.'
'What keys?'
'The keys of your cabinet, desk, drawers, and whatever else you
possess,' said he, rising and holding out his hand.
'I've not got them,' I replied.  The key of my desk, in fact, was
at that moment in the lock, and the others were attached to it.
'Then you must send for them,' said he; 'and if that old devil,
Rachel, doesn't immediately deliver them up, she tramps bag and
baggage tomorrow.'
'She doesn't know where they are,' I answered, quietly placing my
hand upon them, and taking them from the desk, as I thought,
unobserved.  'I know, but I shall not give them up without a
reason.'
'And I know, too,' said he, suddenly seizing my closed hand and
rudely abstracting them from it.  He then took up one of the
candles and relighted it by thrusting it into the fire.
'Now, then,' sneered he, 'we must have a confiscation of property.
But, first, let us take a peep into the studio.'
And putting the keys into his pocket, he walked into the library.
I followed, whether with the dim idea of preventing mischief, or
only to know the worst, I can hardly tell.  My painting materials
were laid together on the corner table, ready for to-morrow's use,
and only covered with a cloth.  He soon spied them out, and putting
down the candle, deliberately proceeded to cast them into the fire:
palette, paints, bladders, pencils, brushes, varnish:  I saw them
all consumed:  the palette-knives snapped in two, the oil and
turpentine sent hissing and roaring up the chimney.  He then rang
the bell.
'Benson, take those things away,' said he, pointing to the easel,
canvas, and stretcher; 'and tell the housemaid she may kindle the
fire with them:  your mistress won't want them any more.'
