
   But, under the influence of their degraded fortunes, both officers and men appeared better disposed to await the approach of their formidable antagonist within their works, than to resist the progress of their march, by emulating the successful example of the French at Fort du Quesne, and striking
a blow on their advance.
   After the first surprise of the intelligence had a
little abated, a rumour was spread through the intrenched camp, which stretched along the margin of
the Hudson, forming a chain of outworks to the body
of the fort itself, that a chosen detachment of
fifteen hundred men was to depart with the dawn
for William Henry, the post at the northern extremity of the portage. That which at first was only
rumour, soon became certainty, as orders passed
from the quarters of the commander-in-chief to the
several corps he had selected for this service, to prepare for their speedy departure. All doubt as to the
intention of Webb now vanished, and an hour or two
of hurried footsteps and anxious faces succeeded.
The novice in the military art flew from point to
point, retarding his own preparations by the excess
of his violent and somewhat distempered zeal; while
the more practised veteran made his arrangements
with a deliberation that scorned every appearance
of haste; though his sober lineaments, and anxious
eye, sufficiently betrayed that he had no very strong
professional relish for the, as yet, untried and dreaded


warfare of the wilderness. At length the sun set
in a flood of glory behind the distant western hills,
and as darkness drew its veil around the secluded
spot, the sounds of preparation diminished; the last
light finally disappeared from the log cabin of
some officer; the trees cast their deeper shadows
over the mounds, and the rippling stream, and
a silence soon pervaded the camp, as deep as that
which reigned in the vast forest by which it was
environed.
   According to the orders of the preceding night,
the heavy sleep of the army was broken by the
rolling of the warning drums, whose rattling echoes
were heard issuing, on the damp morning air, out of
every vista of the woods, just as day began to draw
the shaggy outlines of some tall pines of the vicinity,
on the opening brightness of a soft and cloudless
eastern sky. In an instant, the whole camp was in
motion; the meanest soldier arousing from his lair
to witness the departure of his comrades, and to
share in the excitement and incidents of the hour.
The simple array of the chosen band was soon completed. While the regular and trained hirelings of
the king marched with ready haughtiness to the right
of the line, the less pretending colonists took their
humbler position on its left, with a docility that long
practice had rendered easy. The scouts departed;
strong guards preceded and followed the lumbering vehicles that bore the baggage; and before
the gray light of the morning was mellowed by
the rays of the rising sun, the main body of the combatants wheeled into column, and left the encamp


ment with a show of high military bearing, that served to drown the slumbering apprehensions of many a
novice, who was now about to make his first essay
in arms. While in view of their admiring comrades,
the same proud front and ordered array was observed, until the notes of their fifes growing fainter
in distance, the forest at length appeared to swallow
up the living mass which had slowly entered its
bosom.
   The deepest sounds of the retiring and invisible
column had ceased to be borne on the breeze to the listeners, and the latest straggler had already disappeared
in pursuit, but there still remained the signs of another departure, before a log cabin of unusual size and
accommodations, in front of which those sentinels
paced their rounds, who were known to guard the person of the English general. At this spot were gathered some half dozen horses, caparisoned in a manner
which showed that two, at least, were destined to bear
the persons of females, of a rank that it was not usual
to meet so far in the wilds of the country. A third
wore the trappings and arms of an officer of the
staff; while the rest, from the plainness of the
housings, and the travelling mails with which they
were encumbered, were evidently fitted for the reception of as many menials, who were, seemingly,
already awaiting the convenience or pleasure of
those they served. At a respectful distance from
this unusual show, were gathered divers groupes of
curious idlers; some admiring the blood and bone of
the high-mettled military charger, and others gazing
at the preparations with the dull wonder of vulgar


curiosity. There was one man, however, who, by
his countenance and actions, formed a marked exception to those who composed the latter class of spectators, being neither idle, nor seemingly very ignorant.
   The person of this remarkable individual was to
the last degree ungainly, without being in any particular manner deformed. He had all the bones and
joints of other men, without any of their proportions.
Erect, his stature surpassed that of his fellows;
though, seated, he appeared reduced within the ordinary limits of our race. The same contrariety in
his members, seemed to exist throughout the whole
man. His head was large; his shoulders narrow;
his arms long and dangling; while his hands were
small, if not delicate. His legs and thighs were thin
nearly to emaciation, but of extraordinary length;
and his knees would have been considered tremendous, had they not been outdone by the broader
foundations on which this false superstructure of blended human orders, was so profanely reared. The
ill-assorted and injudicious attire of the individual only
served to render his awkwardness more conspicuous. A sky-blue coat, with short and broad skirts
and low cape, exposed a long thin neck, and longer
and thinner legs, to the worst animadversions of the
evil disposed. His nether garment was of yellow
nankeen, closely fitted to the shape, and tied at his
bunches of knees by large knots of white ribbon, a
good deal sullied by use. Clouded cotton stockings,
and shoes, on one of the latter of which was a plated
spur, completed the costume of the lower extremity of
this figure, no curve or angle of which was concealed,


but, on the other hand, studiously exhibited, through
the vanity or simplicity of its owner. From beneath
the flap of an enormous pocket of a soiled vest of
embossed silk, heavily ornamented with tarnished
silver lace, projected an instrument, which, from
being seen in such martial company, might have
been easily mistaken for some mischievous and
unknown implement of war. Small as it was, this
uncommon engine had excited the curiosity of most
of the Europeans in the camp, though several of the
provincials were seen to handle it, not only without
fear, but with the utmost familiarity. A large civil
cocked hat, like those worn by clergymen within the
last thirty years, surmounted the whole, furnishing
dignity to a good natured, and somewhat vacant
countenance, that apparently needed such artificial
aid to support the gravity of some high and extraordinary trust.
   While the common herd stood aloof from the
gathering group of travellers, in deference to the
sacred precincts of the quarters of Webb, the figure
we have described stalked into the centre of the
domestics, who were in waiting with the horses,
freely expressing his censures or commendations on
the merits of the latter, as by chance they displeased
or satisfied his judgment.
   "This beast, I rather conclude, friend, is not of
home raising, but is from foreign lands, or perhaps from
the little island itself, over the blue water?" he said,
in a voice as remarkable for the softness and sweetness of its tones, as was his person for its rare proportions: "I may speak of these things and be no


braggart, for I have been down at both havens; that
which is situate at the mouth of Thames, and is
named after the capital of Old England, and that
which is called `Haven,' with the addition of the
word `New;' and have seen the snows and brigantines collecting their droves, like the gathering to the
ark, being outward bound to the island of Jamaica,
for the purpose of barter and traffic in four-footed
animals; but never before have I beheld a beast
which verified the true scripture war-horse like this;
`He paweth in the valley, and rejoiceth in his
strength; he goeth out to meet the armed men.'
`He saith among the trumpets, ha ha! and he
smelleth the battle afar off; the thunder of the captains and the shouting.' -- It would seem that the
stock of the horse of Israel has descended to our own
time; would it not, friend?"
   Receiving no reply to this extraordinary appeal,
which, in truth, as it was delivered with all the vigour
of full and sonorous tones, merited some sort of notice, he who had thus sung forth the language of the
holy book, turned to the silent figure to whom
he had unwittingly addressed himself, and found a
new and more powerful subject of admiration in the
object that encountered his gaze. His eyes fell on
the still, upright, and rigid form of the "Indian runner," who had borne to the camp the unwelcome
tidings of the preceding evening. Although in a
state of perfect repose, and apparently disregarding,
with characteristic stoicism, the excitement and
bustle around him, there was a sullen fierceness
mingled with the quiet of the savage, that was likely


to arrest the attention of much more experienced
eyes, than those which now scanned him, in unconcealed amazement. The native bore both the tomahawk and knife of his tribe; and yet his appearance
was not altogether that of a warrior. On the contrary, there was an air of neglect about his person,
like that which might have proceeded from great
and recent exertion, which he had not yet found leisure to repair. The colours of the war-paint had
blended in dark confusion about his fierce countenance, and rendered his swarthy lineaments still
more savage and repulsive, than if art had attempted an effect, which had been thus produced by
chance. His eye, alone, which glistened like a fiery
star amid lowering clouds, was to be seen in its state
of native wildness. For a single instant, his searching, and yet wary glance, met the wondering look of
the other, and then changing its direction, partly in
cunning, and partly in disdain, it remained fixed,
as if penetrating the distant air.
   It is impossible to say what unlooked for remark
this short and silent communication, between two
such singular men, might have elicited from the
tall white man, had not his active curiosity been
again drawn to other objects. A general movement amongst the domestics, and a low sound of gentle voices, announced the approach of those whose
presence was wanted, in order to enable the
cavalcade to move. The simple admirer of the
war-horse instantly fell back to a low, gaunt, switchtailed mare, that was unconsciously gleaning the
faded herbage of the camp, nigh by, where, leaning


with one elbow on the blanket that concealed an apology for a saddle, he became a spectator of the departure, while a foal was quietly making its morning
repast, on the opposite side of the same animal.
   A young man, in the livery of the crown, conducted to their steeds two females, who, it was apparent
by their dresses, were prepared to encounter the
fatigues of a journey in the woods. One, and she
was the most juvenile in her appearance, though
both were young, permitted glimpses of her dazzling
complexion, fair golden hair, and bright blue eyes,
to be caught, as she artlessly suffered the morning
air to blow aside the green veil, which descended low
from her beaver. The flush which still lingered above
the pines in the western sky, was not more bright
nor delicate than the bloom on her cheek; nor was the
opening day more cheering than the animated smile
which she bestowed on the youth, as he assisted her
into the saddle. The other, who appeared to share
equally in the attentions of the young officer, concealed her charms from the gaze of the soldiery with a
studious care, that seemed better fitted to the experience of four or five additional years. It could
be seen, however, that her person, though moulded
with the same exquisite proportions, of which none
of the graces were lost by the travelling dress she
wore, was rather fuller and more mature than that of
her companion.
   No sooner were these females seated, than their attendant sprang lightly into the saddle of the warhorse, when the whole three bowed to Webb, who,
in courtesy, awaited their parting on the threshold
