


of his cabin, and turning their horses' heads, they
proceeded at a slow amble, followed by their train,
towards the northern entrance of the encampment.
As they traversed that short distance, not a voice was
heard amongst them; but a slight exclamation proceeded from the younger of the females, as the Indian runner glided by her, unexpectedly, and led the
way along the military road in her front. Though
this sudden and startling movement of the Indian,
produced no sound from the other, in the surprise,
her veil also was allowed to open its folds, and betrayed an indescribable look of pity, admiration and
horror, as her dark eye followed the easy motions of
the savage. The tresses of this lady were shining
and black, like the plumage of the raven. Her complexion was not brown, but it rather appeared
charged with the colour of the rich blood, that
seemed ready to burst its bounds. And yet there
was neither coarseness, nor want of shadowing, in a
countenance that was exquisitely regular and dignified, and surpassingly beautiful. She smiled, as if in
pity at her own momentary forgetfulness, discovering
by the act a row of teeth that would have shamed,
by their dazzling whiteness, the purest ivory; when,
replacing the veil, she bowed her face, and rode in
silence, like one whose thoughts were abstracted
from the scene around her.


Chapter 2
CHAPTER II.
Sola, sola, wo ha, ho, sola! 
Shakspeare. 
    
   While one of the lovely beings we have so cursorily
presented to the reader, was thus lost in thought, the
other quickly recovered from the slight alarm which
induced the exclamation, and, laughing at her own
weakness, she inquired playfully of the youth who
rode by her side -- 
   "Are such spectres frequent in the woods, Heyward; or is this sight an especial entertainment, ordered in our behalf. If the latter, gratitude must
close our mouths; but if the former, both Cora and
I shall have need to draw largely on that stock of hereditary courage of which we boast, even before we
are made to encounter the redoubtable Montcalm."
   "Yon Indian is a `runner' of our army, and, after
the fashion of his people, he may be accounted a
hero," returned the young officer, to whom she addressed herself -- "He has volunteered to guide us to
the lake, by a path but little known, sooner than if
we followed the tardy movements of the column; and,
by consequence, more agreeably."
   "I like him not," said the lady, shuddering, partly


in assumed, yet more in real terror. "You know him,
Duncan, or you would not trust yourself so freely to
his keeping?"
   "Say, rather, Alice, that I would not trust you,"
returned the young man, impressively; "I do know
him, or he would not have my confidence, and
least of all, at this moment. He is said to be a Canadian, too; and yet he served with our friends the
Mohawks, who, as you know, are one of the six allied
nations. He was brought amongst us, as I have heard,
by some strange accident, in which your father was interested, and in which the savage was rigidly dealt by
-- but I forget the idle tale; it is enough, that he is
now our friend."
   "If he has been my father's enemy, I like him still
less!" exclaimed the now really anxious maiden.
"Will you not speak to him, Major Heyward, that I
may hear his tones? Foolish though it may be, you
have often heard me avow my faith in the tones of the
human voice!"
   "It would be in vain; and answered, most probably, by an ejaculation. Though he may understand
it, he affects, like most of his people, to be ignorant
of the English; and least of all, will he condescend to
speak it, now that war demands the utmost exercise
of his dignity. But he stops; the private path by
which we are to journey is, doubtless, at hand."
   The conjecture of Major Heyward was true.
When they reached the spot where the Indian stood,
pointing into the thicket that fringed the military
road, a narrow and blind path, which might, with


some little inconvenience, receive one person at a
time, became visible.
   "Here, then, lies our way," said the young man, in
a low voice. "Manifest no distrust, or you may invite the danger you appear to apprehend."
   "Cora, what think you?" asked the reluctant fair
one. "If we journey with the troops, though we may
find their presence irksome, shall we not feel better
assurance of our safety?"
   "Being little accustomed to the practices of the
savages, Alice, you mistake the place of real danger,"
said Heyward. "If enemies have reached the portage
at all, a thing by no means probable, as our scouts
are abroad, they will surely be found skirting the
column, where scalps abound the most. The route of
the detachment is known, while ours, having been determined within the hour, must still be secret."
   "Should we distrust the man, because his manners
are not our manners, and that his skin is dark!"
coldly asked Cora.
   Alice hesitated no longer; but giving her Narraganset a smart cut of the whip, she was the first to dash
aside the slight branches of the bushes, and to follow
the runner along the dark and tangled path-way.
The young man regarded the last speaker in open
admiration, and even permitted her fairer, though
certainly not more beautiful companion, to proceed
unattended, while he sedulously opened a way himself, for the passage of her who has been called Cora.
It would seem that the domestics had been previously instructed; for, instead of penetrating the


thicket, they followed the route of the column; a
measure, which Heyward stated, had been dictated
by the sagacity of their guide, in order to diminish the
marks of their trail, if, haply, the Canadian savages
should be lurking so far in advance of their army.
For many minutes, the intricacy of their route admitted of no further dialogue; after which they emerged
from the broad border of underbrush, which grew
along the line of the highway, and entered under the
high, but dark arches of the forest. Here, their progress was less interrupted; and the instant their guide
perceived that the females could command their
steeds, he moved on, at a pace between a trot and a
walk; and at a rate which kept the sure-footed and
peculiar animals they rode, at a fast, and yet easy
amble. The youth had turned, to speak to the darkeyed Cora, when the distant sounds of horses' hoofs,
clattering over the roots of the broken way in his rear,
caused him to check his charger; and as his companions drew their reins at the same instant, the whole
party came to a halt, in order to obtain an explanation of the unlooked for interruption.
   In a few moments, a colt was seen gliding, like a
fallow deer, amongst the straight trunks of the pines;
and in another instant, the person of the ungainly
man, described in the preceding chapter, came into
view, with as much rapidity as he could excite his
meager beast to endure, without coming to an open
rupture. In their short passage from the quarters of
Webb to their attendants, no opportunity had been
furnished the travellers to look upon the personage
who now approached them. If he possessed the power


to arrest any wandering eye, when exhibiting the
glories of his altitude on foot, his equestrian graces
were quite as observable. Notwithstanding a constant application of his one armed heel to the flanks
of the mare, the most confirmed gait that he could
establish, was a Canterbury gallop with the hind legs,
in which those more forward assisted for doubtful
moments, though generally content to maintain a
lopeing trot. Perhaps the rapidity of the changes
from one of these paces to the other, created an optical illusion, which might thus magnify the powers of
the beast; for it is certain that Heyward, who possessed a true eye for the merits of a horse, was unable,
with his utmost ingenuity, to decide, by what sort of
movement his pursuer worked his sinuous way on
his foot-steps, with such persevering hardihood.
