
of the canoe, and took possession of the other himself, as erect and steady as if he floated in a vessel of
much firmer materials. The Indians warily retraced
their steps towards the place they had left, when the
scout, placing his pole against a rock, by a powerful
shove, sent his frail bark directly into the centre of the
turbulent stream. For many minutes the struggle
between the light bubble in which they floated, and the
swift current, was severe and doubtful. Forbidden
to stir even a hand, and almost afraid to breathe, lest
they should expose the frail fabric to the fury of the
stream, the anxious passengers watched the glancing waters in feverish suspense. Twenty times they
thought the whirling eddies were sweeping them to
destruction, when the master-hand of their pilot would
bring the bows of the canoe to stem the rapid, and
their eyes glanced over a confused mass of the murmuring element -- so swift was the passage between it and
their little vessel. A long, a vigorous, and, as it
appeared to the females, a desperate effort, closed the
scene. Just as Alice veiled her eyes in horror,
under the impression that they were about to be swept
within the vortex at the foot of the cataract, the canoe floated, stationary, at the side of a flat rock, that
lay on a level with the water.
   "Where are we? and what is next to be done?"
demanded Heyward, perceiving that the exertions of
the scout had ceased.
   "You are at the foot of Glenn's," returned the other,
speaking aloud, without fear of consequences, within
the roar of the cataract; "and the next thing is to
make a steady landing, lest the canoe upsets, and you


should go down again the hard road we have travelled, faster than you came up it; 'tis a hard rift to stem,
when the river is a little swelled; and five is an unnatural number to keep dry in the hurry-skurry, with a
little birchen bark, and gum. There, go you all on
the rock, and I will bring up the Mohicans with the
venison. A man had better sleep without his scalp,
than famish in the midst of plenty."
   His passengers gladly complied with these directions. As the last foot touched the rock, the canoe whirled from its station, when the tall form of
the scout was seen, for an instant, gliding above the
waters, before it disappeared in the impenetrable
darkness that rested on the bed of the river. Left by
their guide, the travellers remained a few minutes in
helpless ignorance, afraid even to move along the
broken rocks, lest a false step should precipitate them
down some one of the many deep and roaring caverns, into which the water seemed to tumble, on
every side of them. Their suspense, however, was
soon relieved; for, aided by the skill of the natives,
the canoe shot back into the eddy, and floated again
at the side of the low rock, before they thought the
scout had even time to rejoin his companions.
   "We are now fortified, garrisoned, and provisioned," cried Heyward, cheerfully, "and may set
Montcalm and his allies at defiance. How, now, my
vigilant sentinel, can you see any thing of those you
call the Iroquois on the main land?"
   "I call them Iroquois, because to me every native,
who speaks a foreign tongue, is accounted an enemy,
though he may pretend to serve the king! If Webb


wants faith and honesty in a Indian, let him bring out
the tribes of the Delawares, and send these greedy
and lying Mohawks and Oneidas, with their six nations
of varlets, where in nature they belong, among the
outlandish Frenchmen!"
   "We should then exchange a warlike for a useless
friend! I have heard that the Delawares have laid
aside the hatchet, and are content to be called women!"
   "Ay, shame on the Hollanders and Iroquois, who
carcumvented them by their deviltries into such a
treaty! But I have known them for twenty years, and
will call him liar, that says cowardly blood runs in the
veins of a Delaware. You have driven their tribes
from the sea-shore, and would now believe what their
enemies say, that you may sleep at night upon an
easy pillow. No, no; to me, every Indian who
speaks a foreign tongue is an Iroquois, whether the
castle of his tribe be in Canada or be in York."
   Heyward perceiving that the stubborn adherence
of the scout to the cause of his friends the Delawares
or Mohicans, for they were branches of the same numerous people, was likely to prolong a useless discussion, adroitly changed the subject.
   "Treaty or no treaty, I know full well, that your
two companions are brave and cautious warriors! have
they then heard or seen any thing of our enemies?"
   "An Indian is a mortal to be felt afore he is seen,"
returned the scout, ascending the rock, and throwing
the deer carelessly down. "I trust to other signs
than such as come in at the eye, when I am outlying
on the trail of the Mingoes."


    
   "Do your ears tell you that they have traced our
retreat?"
   "I should be sorry to think they had, though this
is a spot that stout courage might hold for a smart
skrimmage. I will not deny, however, but the horses
cowered when I passed them, as though they scented
the wolves; and a wolf is a beast that is apt to hover
about an Indian ambushment, craving the offals of the
deer the savages kill."
   "You forget the buck at your feet! or, may we
not owe their visit to the dead colt? Ha! what
noise is that!"
   "Poor Miriam," murmured the stranger, uttering
less equivocal sounds; "thy foal was foreordained to
become a prey to ravenous beasts!" Then suddenly
lifting his voice amid the eternal din of the waters, he
sang aloud -- 
"First born of Egypt, smite did he, 
Of mankind, and of beast also; 
O Egypt! wonders sent 'midst thee, 
On Pharaoh and his servants too!" 
   "The death of the colt sits heavy on the heart of
its owner," said the scout; "but it's a good sign to see
a man account upon his dumb friends. He has the
religion of the matter, in believing what is to happen
will happen; and with such a consolation, it wont be
long afore he submits to the rationality of killing a
four-footed beast, to save the lives of human men. It
may be as you say," he continued, reverting to the purport of Heyward's last remark; "and the greater the
reason why we should cut our steaks, and let the carcass drive down the stream, or we shall have the pack


howling along the cliffs, begrudging every mouthful
we swallow. Besides, though the Delaware tongue is
the same as a book to the Iroquois, the cunning varlets are quick enough at understanding the reason of
a wolf's howl."
   The scout, whilst making his remarks, was busied
in collecting certain necessary implements; as he
concluded, he moved silently by the groupe of travellers, accompanied by the Mohicans, who seemed
to comprehend his intentions with instinctive readiness, when the whole three disappeared in succession,
seeming to vanish against the dark face of a perpendicular rock, that rose to the height of a few yards,
within as many feet of the water's edge.


Chapter 6
CHAPTER VI.
"Those strains that once did sweet in Zion glide; 
He wales a portion with judicious care; 
And let us worship God, he says, with solemn air." 
-- 
Burns. 
    
