
   Heyward, and his female companions, witnessed
this mysterious movement with secret uneasiness;
for, though the conduct of the white man had hitherto been above reproach, his rude equipments, blunt
address, and strong antipathies, together with the
character of his silent associates, were all causes for
exciting distrust in minds that had been so recently
alarmed by Indian treachery. The stranger alone
disregarded the passing incidents. He seated
himself on a projection of the rocks, whence he gave
no other signs of consciousness, than by the struggles
of his spirit, as manifested in frequent and heavy sighs.
Smothered voices were next heard, as though men
called to each other in the bowels of the earth, when
a sudden light flashed upon the vision of those without, and laid bare the much prized secret of the place.
   At the farther extremity of a narrow, deep, cavern
in the rock, whose length appeared much extended
by the perspective and the nature of the light by
which it was seen, was seated the scout, holding a


blazing knot of pine. The strong glare of the fire
fell full upon his sturdy, weather-beaten countenance
and forest attire, lending an air of romantic wildness
to the aspect of an individual, who, seen by the sober
light of day, would have exhibited the peculiarities
of a man remarkable for the strangeness of his
dress, the iron-like inflexibility of his frame, and the
singular compound of quick, vigilant sagacity, and of
exquisite simplicity, that by turns usurped the possession of his muscular features. At a little distance in
advance stood Uncas, his whole person thrown powerfully into view by its situation and proximity.
The travellers anxiously regarded the upright, flexible
figure of the young Mohican, graceful and unrestrained in the attitudes and movements of nature. Though
his person was more than usually skreened by a green
and fringed hunting shirt, like that of the white man,
there was no concealment to his dark, glancing, fearless eye, alike terrible and calm; the bold outline of
his high, haughty features, pure in their native red;
or to the dignified elevation of his receding forehead,
together with all the finest proportions of a noble
head, bared to the generous scalping tuft.* It was
the first opportunity possessed by Duncan and his
companions, to view the marked lineaments of either of
their Indian attendants, and each individual of the party
felt relieved from a burthen of doubt, as the proud and
determined, though wild, expression of the features of
the young warrior forced itself on their notice. They


felt it might be a being partially benighted in the vale
of ignorance, but it could not be one who would willingly devote his rich natural gifts to the purposes of
wanton treachery. The ingenuous Alice gazed at his
free air and proud carriage, as she would have
looked upon some precious relic of the Grecian chisel, to which life had been imparted, by the intervention of a miracle; while Heyward, though accustomed to see the perfection of form which abounds
among the uncorrupted natives, openly expressed his
admiration at such an unblemished specimen of the
noblest proportions of man.
   "I could sleep in peace," whispered Alice, in reply, "with such a fearless and generous looking
youth for my sentinel. Surely, Duncan, those cruel
murders, those terrific scenes of torture, of which we
read and hear so much, are never acted in the presence of such as he!"
   "This, certainly, is a rare and brilliant instance of
those natural qualities, in which these peculiar people are said to excel," he answered. "I agree with
you, Alice, in thinking that such a front and eye were
formed rather to intimidate than to deceive; but let
us not practise a deception on ourselves, by expecting any other exhibition of what we esteem virtue,
than according to the fashion of a savage. As bright
examples of great qualities are but too uncommon
among christians, so are they singular and solitary
with the Indians; though, for the honour of our common nature, neither are incapable of producing them.
Let us then hope, that this Mohican may not disap


point our wishes, and prove, what his looks assert
him to be, a brave and constant friend."
   "Now Major Heyward speaks, as Major Heyward
should," murmured Cora; "who, that looks at this
creature of nature, remembers the shades of his
skin!"
   A short, and apparently an embarrassed, silence
succeeded this characteristic remark, which was interrupted by the scout calling to them aloud, to enter.
   "This fire begins to show too bright a flame," he
continued, as they complied, "and might light the
Mingoes to our undoing. Uncas, drop the blanket, and
show the knaves its dark side. This is not such a
supper as a major of the royal Americans has a right to
expect, but I've known stout detachments of the corps
glad to eat their venison raw, and without a relish too.
Here, you see, we have plenty of salt, and can make
a quick broil. There's fresh saxafrax boughs for the
ladies to sit on, which may not be as proud as their
my-hog-guinea chairs, but which sends up a sweeter
flavour than the skin of any hog can do, be it of Guinea, or be it of any other land. Come, friend, dont
be mournful for the colt; 'twas an innocent thing, and
had not seen much hardship. Its death will save the
creatur many a sore back and weary foot!"
   Uncas did as the other had directed, and when
the voice of Hawk-eye ceased, the roar of the cataract sounded like the rumbling of distant thunder.
   "Are we quite safe in this cavern?" demanded
Heyward. "Is there no danger of surprise? A sin


gle armed man, at its entrance, would hold us at his
mercy."
   A spectral looking figure stalked from out the darkness behind the scout, and seizing a blazing brand,
held it towards the further extremity of their place of
retreat. Alice uttered a faint shriek, and even Cora
rose to her feet, as this appalling object moved into
the light; but a single word from Heyward calmed
them, with the assurance it was only their attendant,
Chingachgook, who, lifting another blanket, discovered
that the cavern had two outlets. Then, holding the
brand, he crossed a deep, narrow chasm in the rocks,
which ran at right angles with the passage they were
in, but which, unlike that, was open to the heavens,
and entered another cave, answering to the description of the first, in every essential particular.
   "Such old foxes as Chingachgook and myself, are
not often caught in a burrow with one hole," said
Hawk-eye, laughing; "you can easily see the cunning
of the place -- the rock is black limestone, which
every body knows is soft; it makes no uncomfortable
pillow, where brush and pine wood is scarce; well,
the fall was once a few yards below us, and I dare
to say was, in its time, as regular and as handsome a
sheet of water as any along the Hudson. But old
age is a great injury to good looks, as these sweet
young ladies have yet to l'arn! The place is sadly
changed! These rocks are full of cracks, and in
some places, they are softer than at othersome, and
the water has worked out deep hollows for itself, until it has fallen back, ay, some hundred feet, breaking


here, and wearing there, until the falls have neither
shape nor consistency."
   "In what part of them are we?" asked Heyward.
   "Why, we are nigh by the spot that Providence
first placed them at, but where, it seems, they were
too rebellious to stay. The rock proved softer on
either side of us, and so they left the centre of the
river bare and dry, first working out these two little
holes for us to hide in."
   "We are then on an island?"
   "Ay! there are the falls on two sides of us, and
the river above and below. If you had daylight, it
would be worth the trouble to step up on the height
of this rock, and look at the perversity of the water
It falls by no rule at all; sometimes it leaps, sometimes
it tumbles; there, it skips; here, it shoots; in one
place 'tis white as snow, and in another 'tis green as
grass; hereabouts, it pitches into deep hollows, that
rumble and quake the 'arth; and thereaway, it ripples
and sings like a brook, fashioning whirlpools and gullies in the old stone, as if 'twas no harder than trodden
clay. The whole design of the river seems disconcerted. First it runs smoothly, as if meaning to go down
the descent as things were ordered; then it angles
about and faces the shores; nor are there places
wanting, where it looks backward, as if unwilling to
leave the wilderness, to mingle with the salt! Ay,
lady, the fine cobweb-looking cloth you wear at your
throat, is coarse, and like a fish net, to little spots I
can show you, where the river fabricates all sorts of
images, as if, having broke loose from order, it would
try its hand at every thing. And yet what does it


amount to! After the water has been suffered to
have its will for a time, like a headstrong man, it is
gathered together by the hand that made it, and a few
rods below you may see it all, flowing on steadily towards the sea, as was foreordained from the first
foundation of the 'arth!"
   While his auditors received a cheering assurance
of the security of their place of concealment, from
this untutored description of Glenn's, they were much
inclined to judge differently from Hawk-eye, of its
wild beauties. But they were not in a situation to
suffer their thoughts to dwell on the charms of natural objects; and, as the scout had not found it necessary to cease his culinary labours while he spoke, unless to point out, with a broken fork, the direction of
some particularly obnoxious point in the rebellious
stream, they now suffered their attention to be drawn
to the necessary though more vulgar consideration of
their supper.
   The repast, which was greatly aided by the addition of a few delicacies, that Heyward had the precaution to bring with him, when they left their horses,
was exceedingly refreshing to the wearied party.
Uncas acted as attendant to the females, performing
all the little offices within his power, with a mixture
of dignity and anxious grace, that served to amuse
Heyward, who well knew that it was an utter innovation on the Indian customs, which forbid their
warriors to descend to any menial employment, especially in favour of their women. As the rites of
hospitality were, however, considered sacred among
them, this little departure from the dignity of man


