
hood excited no audible comment. Had there been
one there sufficiently disengaged to become a close
observer, he might have fancied that the services of
the young chief were not entirely impartial. That,
while he tendered to Alice the calabash of sweet
water, and the venison in a trencher, neatly carved
from the knot of the pepperage, with sufficient courtesy, in performing the same offices to her sister,
his dark eye lingered on her rich, speaking, countenance, with a softness that banished the bright gleams
of pride, that were usually glancing there, entirely
from their expression. Once or twice he was compelled to speak, to command the attention of those
he served. In such cases, he made use of English,
broken and imperfect, but sufficiently intelligible, and
which he rendered so mild and musical, by his* deep,
guttural voice, that it never failed to cause both ladies to look up in admiration and astonishment. In
the course of these civilities, a few sentences were
exchanged, that served to establish the appearance
of an amicable intercourse between the parties.
   In the meanwhile, the gravity of Chingachgook remained immovable. He had seated himself more
within the circle of light, where the frequent, uneasy
glances of his guests were better enabled to separate
the natural expression of his face, from the artificial
terrors of the war-paint. They found a strong resemblance between father and son, with the difference
that might be expected from age and hardships.
The fierceness of his countenance now seemed to


slumber, and in its place was to be seen the quiet,
vacant composure, which distinguishes an Indian warrior, when his faculties are not required for any of
the greater purposes of his existence. It was, however,
easy to be seen, by the occasional gleams that shot
across his swarthy visage, that it was only necessary
to arouse his passions in order to give full effect to
the terrific device which he had adopted to intimidate his enemies. On the other hand, the quick, roving eye of the scout seldom rested. He ate and
drank with an appetite that no sense of danger could
disturb, but his vigilance seemed never to desert him.
Twenty times the calabash or the venison was suspended before his lips, while his head was turned
aside, as though he listened to some distant and distrusted sounds -- a movement that never failed to recall his guests from regarding the novelties of their
situation, to a recollection of the alarming reasons
that had driven them to seek it. As these frequent
pauses were never followed by any remark, the momentary uneasiness they created quickly passed away,
and was, for a time, forgotten.
   "Come, friend," said Hawk-eye, drawing out a
keg from beneath a cover of leaves, towards the close
of the repast, and addressing the stranger who sat at
his elbow, doing great justice to his culinary skill,
"try a little spruce; 'twill wash away all thoughts of
the colt, and quicken the life in your bosom. I drink
to our better friendship, hoping that a little horseflesh
may leave no heart-burnings atween us. How do
you name yourself?"
   "Gamut -- David Gamut," returned the singing.


master, mechanically wiping his mouth, preparatory
to washing down his sorrows, in a powerful draught
of the woodman's high-flavoured and well-laced compound.
   "A very good name," returned the other, taking
breath after a draught, whose length announced how
much he admired his own skill in brewing, "and, I
dare say, handed down from honest forefathers. I'm
an admirator of names, though the Christian fashions
fall far below savage customs in this particular. The
biggest coward I ever knew was called Lyon; and his
wife, Patience, would scold you out of hearing in less
time than a hunted deer would run a rod. With an Indian 'tis a matter of conscience; what he calls himself,
he generally is -- not that Chingachgook, which signifies big sarpent, is really a snake, big or little; but that
he understands the windings and turnings of human
natur, and is silent, and strikes his enemies when
they least expect him. What may be your calling?"
   "I am an unworthy instructor in the art of psalmody."
   "Anan!"
   "I teach singing to the youths of the Connecticut
levy."
   "You might be better employed. The young
hounds go laughing and singing too much already
through the woods, when they ought not to breathe
louder than a fox in his cover. Can you use the
smooth bore, or handle the rifle?"
   "Praised be God, I have never had occasion to
meddle with such murderous implements!"
   "Perhaps you understand the compass, and lay
down the water courses and mountains of the wilder


ness on paper, in order that they who follow may find
places by their given names?"
   "I practise no such employment."
   "You have a pair of legs that might make a long
path seem short! you journey sometimes, I fancy,
with tidings for the general."
   "Never; I follow no other than my own high vocation, which is instruction in sacred music!"
   " 'Tis a strange calling!" muttered Hawk-eye,
with an inward laugh, "to go through life, like a catbird, mocking all the ups and downs that may happen
to come out of other men's throats. Well, friend, I
suppose it is your gift, and mustn't be denied any
more than if 'twas shooting, or some other better inclination. Let us hear what you can do in that way;
'twill be a friendly manner of saying good night, for
'tis time these ladies should be getting strength for a
hard and a long push, in the pride of the morning,
afore the Maquas are stirring."
   "With joyful pleasure do I consent," said David,
adjusting his iron-rimmed spectacles again, and producing his beloved little volume, which he immediately tendered to Alice. "What can be more fitting and consolatory, than to offer up evening praise
after a day of such exceeding jeopardy!"
   Alice smiled; but regarding Heyward, she blushed
and hesitated.
   "Indulge yourself," he whispered; "ought not
the suggestion of the worthy namesake of the Psalmist to have its weight at such a moment?"
   Encouraged by his opinion, Alice did what both
her pious inclinations and her keen relish for gentle


sounds, had before so strongly urged upon her. The
book was open at a hymn not ill adapted to their situation, and in which the poet, no longer goaded by his desire to excel the inspired King of Israel, had discovered
some chastened and respectable powers. Cora betrayed a disposition to support her sister, and the sacred song proceeded, after the indispensable preliminaries of the pitch-pipe and the tune had been duly
attended to by the methodical David.
   The air was solemn and slow. At times it rose to
the fullest compass of the rich voices of the sweet
maidens, who hung over their little book in holy excitement, and again it sunk so low, that the rushing of
the waters ran through their melody like a hollow accompaniment. The natural taste and true ear of
David, governed and modified the sounds to suit their
confined cavern, every crevice and cranny of which
was filled with the thrilling notes of their flexib
voices. The Indians riveted their eyes on the rocks,
and listened with an attention that seemed to turn them
into stone. But the scout, who had placed his chin
in his hand, with an expression of cold indifference,
gradually suffered his rigid features to relax, until, as
verse succeeded verse, he felt his iron nature subdued, while his recollection was carried back to his
boyhood, when his ears had been accustomed to listen to similar, though far less sweet, sounds of praise,
in the settlements of the colony. His roving eyes began to moisten, and before the hymn was ended,
large, scalding tears rolled out of fountains that had long
seemed dry, and followed each other down those
cheeks that had oftener felt the storms of heaven,


than any testimonials of weakness. The singers
were dwelling on one of those low, dying chords, which
the ear devours with such greedy rapture, as if conscious that it is about to lose them, when a cry, that
seemed neither human, nor earthly, rose in the outward air, penetrating not only the recesses of the cavern, but to the inmost hearts of all who heard it. It
was followed by a stillness apparently as deep as if
the waters had been checked in their furious progress
at such a horrid and unusual interruption?
   "What is it?" murmured Alice, after a few moments of terrible suspense.
   "What is it?" repeated Heyward, aloud.
   Neither Hawk-eye, nor the Indians, made any reply. They listened, as if expecting the sound would
be repeated, with a manner that expressed their own
astonishment. At length, they spoke together, earnestly, in the Delaware language, when Uncas, passing by the inner and most concealed aperture, cautiously left the cavern. When he had gone, the scout
first spoke in English.
   "What it is, or what it is not, none here can tell;
though two of us have ranged the woods for more
than thirty years! I did believe there was no cry that
Indian or beast could make, that my ears had not
heard; but this has proved that I was only a vain
and conceited mortal."
   "Was it not, then, the shout the warriors make
when they wish to intimidate their enemies?" asked
Cora, who stood drawing her veil about her person,
with a calmness to which her agitated sister was a
stranger.

