

    
   "No, no; this was bad, and shocking, and had a
sort of unhuman sound; but when you once hear the
war-whoop, you will never mistake it for any thing
else! Well, Uncas!" speaking in the Delaware to
the young chief as he re-entered, "what see you? do
our lights shine through the blankets?"
   The answer was short, and apparently decided,
being given in the same tongue.
   "There is nothing to be seen without," continued
Hawk-eye, shaking his head in discontent; "and our
hiding-place is still in darkness! Pass into the other
cave, you that need it, and seek for sleep; we must
be afoot long before the sun, and make the most of
our time to get to Edward, while the Mingoes are
taking their morning nap."
   Cora set the example of compliance, with a steadiness that taught the more timid Alice the necessity of
obedience. Before leaving the place, however, she
whispered a request to Duncan that he would follow.
Uncas raised the blanket for their passage, and as the
sisters turned to thank him for this act of attention,
they saw the scout seated again before the dying embers, with his face resting on his hands, in a manner
which showed how deeply he brooded on the unaccountable interruption, which had broken up their
evening devotions.
   Heyward took with him a blazing knot, which
threw a dim light through the narrow vista of their new
apartment. Placing it in a favourable position, he
joined the females, who now found themselves alone
with him, for the first time since they had left the
friendly ramparts of fort Edward.


    
   "Leave us not, Duncan," said Alice; "we cannot
sleep in such a place as this, with that horrid cry still
ringing in our ears!"
   "First let us examine into the security of your
fortress," he answered, "and then we will speak of
rest."
   He approached the farther end of the cavern, to
an outlet, which, like the others, was concealed by
blankets, and removing the thick skreen, breathed
the fresh and reviving air from the cataract. One
arm of the river flowed through a deep, narrow
ravine, which its current had worn in the soft rock,
directly beneath his feet, forming an effectual defence, as he believed, against any danger from that
quarter; the water, a few rods above them, plunging,
glancing, and sweeping along, in its most violent and
broken manner.
   "Nature has made an impenetrable barrier on this
side," he continued, pointing down the perpendicular
declivity into the dark current, before he dropped the
blanket; "and as you know that good men and true,
are on guard in front, I see no reason why the advice
of our honest host should be disregarded. I am certain Cora will join me in saying, that sleep is necessary to you both!"
   "Cora may submit to the justice of your opinion,
though she cannot put it in practice," returned the
elder sister, who had placed herself by the side of
Alice, on a couch of sassafras; "there would be other
causes to chase away sleep, though we had been spared the shock of this mysterious noise. Ask yourself,
Heyward, can daughters forget the anxiety a father


must endure, whose children lodge, he knows not
where or how, in such a wilderness, and in the midst
of so many perils!"
   "He is a soldier, and knows how to estimate the
chances of the woods."
   "He is a father, and cannot deny his nature."
   "How kind has he ever been to all my follies! how
tender and indulgent to all my wishes!" sobbed
Alice. "We have been selfish, sister, in urging our
visit at such hazard!"
   "I may have been rash in pressing his consent in a
moment of so much embarrassment, but I would have
proved to him, that however others might neglect
him, in his strait, his children were faithful!"
   "When he heard of your arrival at Edward," said
Heyward, kindly, "there was a powerful struggle in his
bosom between fear and love; though the latter, heightened, if possible, by so long a separation, quickly
prevailed. `It is the spirit of my noble minded Cora
that leads them, Duncan,' he said, `and I will not
balk it. Would to God, that he who holds the
honour of our royal master in his guardianship, would
show but half her firmness.' "
   "And did he not speak of me, Heyward?" demanded Alice, with jealous affection. "Surely, he
forgot not altogether his little Elsie!"
   "That were impossible, after having known her so
well," returned the young man; "he called you by a
thousand endearing epithets, that I may not presume
to use, but to the justice of which I can warmly testify.
Once, indeed, he said -- "
   Duncan ceased speaking; for while his eyes were


rivetted on those of Alice, who had turned towards
him with the eagerness of filial affection, to catch his
words, the same strong, horrid cry, as before, filled
the air, and rendered him mute. A long, breathless
silence succeeded, during which, each looked at the
others in fearful expectation of hearing the sound repeated. At length, the blanket was slowly raised, and
the scout stood in the aperture with a countenance
whose firmness evidently began to give way, before a
mystery that seemed to threaten some unknown danger, against which all his cunning and experience
might prove of no avail.


Chapter 7
CHAPTER VII.
     "They do not sleep. 
On yonder cliffs, a grisly band, 
I see them sit." 
-- Gray. 
    
   "'Twould be neglecting a warning that is given for
our good, to lie hid any longer," said Hawk-eye,
"when such sounds are raised in the forest! These
gentle ones may keep close, but the Mohicans and I
will watch upon the rock, where I suppose a major
of the 60th would wish to keep us company."
   "Is then our danger so pressing?" asked Cora.
   "He who makes strange sounds, and gives them
out for man's information, alone knows our danger. I
should think myself wicked unto rebellion against his
will, was I to burrow with such warnings in the air!
Even the weak soul, who passes his days in singing,
is stirred by the cry, and, as he says, is `ready to go
forth to the battle.' If'twere only a battle, it would
be a thing understood by us all, and easily managed;
but I have heard that when such shrieks are atween
heaven and 'arth, it betokens another sort of warfare!"
   "If all our reasons for fear, my friend, are confirmed
to such as proceed from supernatural causes, we have
