


but little occasion to be alarmed," continued the undisturbed maiden; "are you certain that our enemies have not invented some new and ingenious method to strike us with terror, that their conquest may
become more easy?"
   "Lady," returned the scout, solemnly, "I have
listened to all the sounds of the woods for thirty
years, as a man will listen, whose life and death depend so often on the quickness of his ears. There
is no whine of the partner; no whistle of the catbird; nor any invention of the devilish Mingoes, that
can cheat me! I have heard the forest moan like
mortal men, in their affliction; often, and again, have
I listened to the wind playing its music in the
branches of the girdled trees; and I have heard the
lightning cracking in the air, like the snapping of blazing brush, as it spitted forth sparks and forked flames;
but never have I thought that I heard more than the
pleasure of him, who sported with the things of his
hand. But neither the Mohicans, nor I, who am a white
man without a cross, can explain the cry just heard.
We, therefore, believe it a sign given for our good."
   "It is extraordinary!" exclaimed Heyward, taking
his pistols from the place where he had laid them, on
entering; "be it a sign of peace, or a signal of war,
it must be looked to. Lead the way, my friend; I
follow."
   On issuing from their place of confinement, the
whole party instantly experienced a grateful renovation of their spirits, by exchanging the pent air of
their hiding place, for the cool and invigorating atmosphere, which played around the whirlpools and


pitches of the cataract. A heavy evening breeze swept
along the surface of the river, and seemed to drive
the roar of the falls into the recesses of their own caverns, whence it issued heavily and constant, like
thunder rumbling beyond the distant hills. The moon
had risen, and its light was already glancing here and
there on the waters above them; but the extremity
of the rock where they stood still lay in deep shadow. With the exception of the sounds produced by
the rushing waters, and an occasional breathing of
the air, as it murmured past them, in fitful currents,
the scene was as still as night and solitude could
make it. In vain were the eyes of each individual
bent along the opposite shores, in quest of some
signs of life, that might explain the nature of the
interruption they had heard. Their anxious and eager
looks were baffled by the deceptive light, or rested
only on naked rocks, or straight and immovable trees.
   "Here is nothing to be seen but the gloom and
quiet of a lovely evening," whispered Duncan;
"how much should we prize such a scene, and all
this breathing solitude, at any other moment, Cora!
Fancy yourselves in security, and what now, perhaps,
increases your terror, may be made conductive to
enjoyment -- "
   "Listen!" interrupted Alice.
   The caution was unnecessary. Once more the
same sound arose, as if from the bed of the river, and
having broken out of the narrow bounds of the cliffs,
was heard undulating through the forest, in distant
and dying cadences.
   "Can any here give a name to such a cry?" de


manded Hawk-eye, when the last echo was lost in the
woods; "if so, let him speak; for myself, I judge it
not to belong to 'arth!"
   "Here, then, is one who can undeceive you," said
Duncan; "I know the sound full well, for often have I
heard it on the field of battle, and in situations which
are frequent in a soldier's life. 'Tis the horrid
shriek that a horse will give in his agony; oftener
drawn from him in pain, though sometimes in his
terror. My charger is either a prey to the beasts of
the forest, or he sees his danger without the power to
avoid it. The sound might deceive me in the cavern, but in the open air I know I cannot be wrong."
   The scout and his companions listened to this simple explanation with the interest of men, who imbibe
new ideas, at the same time that they get rid of old
ones, which had proved disagreeable inmates. The
two latter uttered their usual and expressive exclamation, "hugh!" as the truth first glanced upon their
minds, while the former, after a short musing pause,
took on himself to reply.
   "I cannot deny your words," he said; "for I am
little skilled in horses, though born where they
abound. The wolves must be hovering above their
heads on the bank, and the timorsome creatures are
calling on man for help, in the best manner they are
able. Uncas" -- he spoke in Delaware -- "Uncas,
drop down in the canoe, and whirl a brand among the
pack; or fear may do what the wolves can't get at to
perform, and leave us without horses in the morning,
when we shall have so much need to journey swiftly." 


   The young native had already descended to the
water, to comply, when a long howl was raised on
the edge of the river, and was borne swiftly off into
the depths of the forest, as though the beasts, of their
own accord, were abandoning their prey, in sudden
terror. Uncas, with instinctive quickness, receded,
and the three foresters held another of their low,
earnest conferences.
   "We have been like hunters who have lost the
points of the heavens, and from whom the sun has been
hid for days," said Hawk-eye, turning away from his
companions; "now we begin again to know the signs
of our course, and the paths are cleared from briars!
Seat yourselves in the shade, which the moon throws
from yonder beach -- 'tis thicker than that of the
pines -- and let us wait for that which the Lord may
choose to send next. Let all your conversation be
in whispers; though it would be better, and perhaps,
in the end, wiser, if each one held discourse with his
own thoughts for a time."
   The manner of the scout was seriously impressive, though no longer distinguished by any signs of
unmanly apprehension. It was evident, that his momentary weakness had vanished with the explanation
of a mystery, which his own experience had not served to fathom; and though he now felt all the realities
of their actual condition, that he was prepared to
meet them with the fullest energy of his hardy nature.
This feeling seemed also common to the natives,
who placed themselves in positions which commanded
a full view of both shores, while their own persons
were effectually concealed from observation. In


such circumstances, common prudence dictated that
Heyward, and his companions, should imitate a caution that proceeded from so intelligent a source. The
young man drew a pile of the sassafras from the cave,
and placing it in the chasm which separated the two
caverns, it was occupied by the sisters; who were thus
protected by the rocks from any missiles, while their
anxiety was relieved by the assurance that no danger
could approach without a warning. Heyward himself was posted at hand, so near that he might communicate with his companions without raising his voice
to a dangerous elevation; while David, in imitation
of the woodsmen, bestowed his person in such a manner among the fissures of the rocks, that his ungainly
limbs were no longer offensive to the eye.
   In this manner, hours passed by without further
interruption. The moon reached the zenith, and shed
its mild light, perpendicularly, on the lovely sight of
the sisters, slumbering peacefully in each other's arms.
Duncan cast the wide shawl of Cora before a spectacle he so much loved to contemplate, and then suffered
his own head to seek a pillow on the rock. David
began to utter sounds that would have shocked his
delicate organs in more wakeful moments; in short, all
but Hawk-eye and the Mohicans lost every idea of
consciousness, in uncontrollable drowsiness. But
the watchfulness of these vigilant protectors, neither
tired nor slumbered. Immovable as that rock, of
which each appeared to form a part, they lay, with
their eyes roving, without intermission, along the
dark margin of trees that bounded the adjacent shores
of the narrow stream. Not a sound escaped them;


the most subtle examination could not have told they
breathed. It was evident, that this excess of caution
proceeded, from an experience, that no subtlety on
the part of their enemies could deceive. It was,
however, continued without any apparent consequences, until the moon had set, and a pale streak
above the tree tops, at a bend of the river, a little
below, announced the approach of day.
   Then, for the first time, Hawk-eye was seen to
stir. He crawled along the rock, and shook Duncan
from his heavy slumbers.
   "Now is the time to journey," he whispered;
"awake the gentle ones, and be ready to get into the
canoe when I bring it to the landing place."
   "Have you had a quiet night," said Heyward;
for myself, I believe sleep has gotten the better of
my vigilance."
   "All is yet still as midnight. Be silent, but be
quick."
   By this time Duncan was thoroughly awake, and
he immediately lifted the shawl from the sleeping fair
ones. The motion caused Cora to raise her hand as
if to repulse him, while Alice murmured, in her soft,
gentle voice, "No, no, dear father, we were not deserted; Duncan was with us."
   "Yes, sweet innocence," whispered the delighted
youth; "Duncan is here, and while life continue,
or danger remain, he will never quit thee. Cora!
Alice! awake! The hour has come to move!"
   A loud shriek from the younger of the sisters, and
the form of the other standing upright before him, in
bewildered horror, was the unexpected answer he received. While the words were still on the lips of
