


Heyward, there had arisen such a tumult of yells
and cries, as served to drive the swift currents of his
own youthful blood, back from its bounding course
into the fountains of his heart. It seemed, for near
a minute, as if the demons of hell had possessed
themselves of the air about them, and were venting their savage humours in barbarous sounds.
The cries came from no particular direction, though
it was evident they filled the woods, and, as the
appalled listeners easily imagined, the caverns of
the falls, the rocks, the bed of the river, and the
upper air. David raised his tall person in the midst
of the infernal din, with a hand on either ear, exclaiming -- 
   "Whence comes this discord! Has hell broke
loose, that man should utter sounds like these!"
   The bright flashes, and the quick reports of a dozen
rifles, from the opposite banks of the stream, followed this incautious exposure of his person, and left
the unfortunate singing master, senseless, on that
rock where he had been so long slumbering. The
Mohicans boldly sent back the intimidating yell of
their enemies, who raised a shout of savage triumph
as they witnessed the fall of Gamut. The flash of
rifles was then quick and close between them, but
either party was too well skilled to leave even a
limb exposed to the hostile aim. Duncan listened
with intense anxiety for the strokes of the paddle,
believing that flight was now their only refuge. The
river glanced by with its ordinary velocity, but the
canoe was no where to be seen on its dark waters. He
had just fancied they were cruelly deserted by the


scout, as a stream of flame issued from the rock beneath him, and a fierce yell, blended with a shriek
of agony, announced that the messenger of death,
hurled from the fatal weapon of Hawk-eye, had
found a victim. At this slight repulse the assailants
instantly withdrew and, gradually, the place became
still as before the sudden tumult.
   Duncan seized the favourable moment to spring
to the body of Gamut, which he bore within the
shelter of the narrow chasm that protected the sisters. In another minute the whole party was collected in this spot of comparative safety.
   "The poor fellow has saved his scalp," said
Hawk-eye, coolly passing his hand over the head of
David; "but he is a proof that a man may be born
with too long a tongue! 'Twas downright madness
to show six feet of flesh and blood, on a naked rock,
to the raging savages; and I only wonder he has escaped with life."
   "Is he not dead!" demanded Cora, in a voice
whose husky tones showed how powerfully, natural
horror struggled with her assumed firmness. "Can
we do aught to assist the wretched man?"
   "No, no! the life is in his heart yet, and after he
has slept awhile he will come to himself, and be a
wiser man for it, till the hour of his real time
shall come," returned Hawk-eye, casting another
oblique glance at the insensible body, while he filled his
charger with admirable nicety. "Carry him in, Uncas, and lay him on the saxafrax. The longer his nap
lasts the better it will be for him; as I doubt whether
he can find a proper cover for such a shape on these


rocks; and singing won't do any good with the Iroquois."
   "You believe, then, the attack will be renewed?"
asked Heyward.
   "Do I expect a hungry wolf will satisfy his craving
with a mouthful! They have lost a man, and 'tis
their fashion, when they meet a loss, and fail in the
surprise, to fall back; but we shall have them on
again, with new expedients to circumvent us, and
master our scalps. Our main hope," he continued,
raising his rugged countenance, across which a shade
of anxiety just then passed like a darkening cloud,
"will be to keep the rock until Munro can send a
party to our help! God send it may be soon, and under
a leader that well knows the Indian customs!"
   "You hear our probable fortunes, Cora," said
Duncan; "and you know we have every thing to
hope from the anxiety and experience of your father.
Come, then, with Alice, into this cavern, where you,
at least, will be safe from the murderous rifles of our
enemies, and where you may bestow a care suited
to your gentle natures, on our unfortunate comrade."
   The sisters followed him into the outer cave, where
David was beginning, by his sighs, to give symptoms of
returning consciousness, and, then, commending the
wounded man to their attention, he immediately prepared to leave them.
   "Duncan!" said the tremulous voice of Cora,
when he had reached the mouth of the cavern, immediately arresting the steps of the youth. He
turned, and beheld the speaker, whose rich colour
had changed to a deadly paleness, and whose lip


quivered with her emotion, gazing after him, with an
expression of interest which immediately recalled
him to her side. "Remember, Duncan, how necessary your safety is to our own -- how you bear a
father's sacred trust -- how much depends on your
discretion and care -- in short," she added, while
the tell-tale blood stole over her features, crimsoning
her very temples, "how very deservedly dear you are
to all of the name of Munro."
   "If any thing could add to my own base love of
life," said Heyward, suffering his unconscious eyes to
wander to the youthful form of the silent Alice; "it
would be so kind an assurance. As major of the 60th,
our honest host will tell you I must take my share of
the fray; but our task will be easy; it is merely to
keep these blood-hounds at bay for a few hours."
   Without waiting for any reply, he tore himself
from the presence of the sisters, and joined the scout
and his companions, who still lay within the protection of the little chasm, between the two caves.
   "I tell you, Uncas," said the former, as Heyward
joined them, "you are wasteful of your powder,
and the kick of the rifle disconcerts your aim! Little powder, light lead, and a long arm, seldom fail or
bringing the death screech from a Mingo! At least,
such has been my experience with the creaturs.
Come, friends; let us to our covers, for no man can
tell when or where a Maqua will strike his blow!"
   The Indians silently repaired to their appointed
stations, which were fissures in the rocks, whence
they could command the approaches to the foot of the
falls. In the centre of the little island, a few short


and stinted pines had found root, forming a thicket,
into which Hawk-eye darted, with the swiftness of a
deer, followed by the active Duncan. Here they
secured themselves, as well as circumstances would
permit, among the shrubs and fragments of stone that
were scattered about the place. Above them was a
bare, rounded rock, on either side of which the water
played its gambols, and plunged into the abysses beneath, in the manner already described. As the day
had now dawned, the opposite shores no longer presented a confused outline, but they were able to look
into the woods, and distinguish objects, beneath the
dark canopy of gloomy pines and bushes.
   A long and anxious watch succeeded, but without any further evidences of a renewed attack,
and Duncan began to hope that their fire had proved more fatal than was supposed, and that their
enemies had been effectually repulsed. When he
ventured to utter this impression to his companion,
it was met by Hawk-eye with an incredulous shake
of the head, as he answered -- 
   "You know not the nature of a Maqua, if you think
he is so easily beaten back, without a scalp! If there
was one of the imps yelling this morning, there were
forty! and they know our number and quality too
well to give up the chase so soon. Hist! look into
the water above, just where it breaks over the rocks.
I am no mortal, if the risky devils haven't swam
down upon the very pitch, and as bad luck would
have it, they have hit the head of the island! Hist!
man, keep close! or the hair will be off your crown
in the turning of a knife!"


    
   Heyward lifted his head from the cover, and beheld
what he justly considered a prodigy of rashness and
skill. The river had worn away the edge of the
soft rock in such a manner, as to render its first pitch
less abrupt and perpendicular, than is usual at waterfalls. With no other guide than the ripple of the
stream where it met the head of the island, a party
of their insatiable foes had ventured into the current,
and swam down upon this point, knowing the ready
access it would give them, if successful, to their
intended victims. As Hawk-eye ceased speaking,
four human heads could be seen peering above a
few logs of drift wood, that had lodged on these naked
rocks, and which had probably suggested the idea of
the practicability of the hazardous undertaking. At
the next moment, a fifth form was seen floating over
the green edge of the fall, a little from the true line
of the island. The savage struggled powerfully to
gain the point of safety, and favoured by the glancing
water, he was already stretching forth an arm to meet
the grasp of his companions, when he shot away again
with the whirling current, appeared to rise into the
air, with uplifted arms, and starting eye-balls, and then
fell, with a sullen plunge, into that deep and yawning
abyss over which he hovered. A single, wild, despairing shriek, rose from the cavern, above the dull roar of
the cataract, and all was hushed again as the grave.
   The first generous impulse of Duncan, was to rush
to the rescue of the hapless wretch, but he felt himself bound to the spot, by the iron grasp of the immoveable scout.
   "Would ye bring certain death upon us, by telling
