


the Mingoes where we lie?" demanded Hawk-eye,
sternly; "'tis a charge of powder saved, and ammunition is as precious now as breath to a worried deer!
Freshen the priming of your pistols -- the mist of the
falls is apt to dampen the brimstone -- and stand firm
for a close struggle, while I fire on their rush."
   He placed his finger in his mouth, and drew a long,
shrill whistle, which was answered from the rocks below, that were guarded by the Mohicans. Duncan caught glimpses of heads above the scattered
drift wood, as this signal rose on the air, but they
disappeared again as suddenly as they had glanced
upon his sight. A low, rustling sound, next drew his
attention behind him, and turning his head, he beheld
Uncas within a few feet, creeping to his side. Hawkeye spoke to him in Delaware, when the young chief
took his position with singular caution, and undisturbed coolness. To Heyward this was a moment of
feverish and impatient suspense; though the scout
saw fit to select it as a fit occasion to read a lecture to
his more youthful associates, on the art of using firearms with discretion.
   "Of all we'pons," he commenced, "the long barrelled, true grooved, soft metalled rifle, is the most
dangerous in skillful hands, though it wants a strong
arm, a quick eye, and great judgment in charging, to
put forth all its beauties. The gunsmiths can have
but little insight into their trade, when they make their
fowling-pieces and short horsemens' -- "
   He was interrupted by the low, but expressive
"hugh" of Uncas.
   "I see them, boy, I see them!" continued Hawk


eye; "they are gathering for their rush, or they
would keep their dingy backs below the logs. Well,
let them," he added, examining his flint; "the leading man certainly comes on to his death, though it
should be Montcalm himself!"
   At that moment the woods were filled with another
burst of cries, and, at the signal, four savages sprang
from the cover of the drift wood. Heyward felt a
burning desire to rush forward to meet them, so intense was the delirious anxiety of the moment, but he
was restrained by the deliberate examples of the
scout and Uncas. When their foes, who leaped over
the black rocks that divided them, with long bounds,
uttering the wildest yells, were within a few rods,
the rifle of Hawk-eye slowly rose among the shrubs, and
poured out its fatal contents. The foremost Indian
bounded like a stricken deer, and fell headlong among
the clefts of the island.
   "Now, Uncas!" cried the scout, drawing his long
knife, while his quick eyes began to flash with ardour,
"take the screeching imp behind; of the other two
we are sartain!"
   He was obeyed; and but two enemies remained to
be overcome. Heyward had given one of his pistols
to Hawk-eye, and together they rushed down a little
declivity towards their foes; they discharged their
weapons at the same instant, and equally without
success.
   "I know'd it! and I said it!" muttered the scout,
whirling the despised little implement over the
falls, with bitter disdain. "Come on, ye bloody
minded hell-hounds! ye meet a man without a cross!"


    
   The words were barely uttered, when he encountered a savage of gigantic stature, and of the fiercest
mien. At the same moment, Duncan found himself
engaged with the other, in a similar contest of hand
to hand. With ready skill, Hawk-eye and his antagonist each grasped that uplifted arm of the other,
which held the dangerous knife. For near a minute,
they stood looking one another in the eye, and gradually exerting the power of their muscles for the
mastery. At length, the toughened sinews of the white
man prevailed over the less practised limbs of the native. The arm of the latter slowly gave way before
the increasing force of the scout, who suddenly wresting his armed hand from the grasp of his foe, drove the
sharp weapon through his naked bosom to the heart.
In the meantime, Heyward had been pressed in a
more deadly struggle. His slight sword was snapped
in the first encounter. As he was destitute of any
other means of defence, his safety now depended entirely on bodily strength and resolution. Though
deficient in neither of these qualities, he had met an
enemy every way his equal. Happily, he soon succeeded in disarming his adversary, whose knife fell on
the rock at their feet, and from this moment it became
a fierce struggle, who should cast the other over the
dizzy height, into a neighbouring cavern of the falls.
Every successive struggle brought them nearer to the
verge, where Duncan perceived the final and conquering effort must be made. Each of the combatants threw all his energies into that effort, and the
result was, that both tottered on the brink of the precipice. Heyward felt the grasp of the other at his


throat, and saw the grim smile the savage gave, under
the revengeful hope that he hurried his enemy to a
fate similar to his own, as he felt his body slowly yielding to a resistless power, and the young man experienced the passing agony of such a moment in all its horrors. At that instant of extreme danger, a dark hand and
glancing knife appeared before him; the Indian released his hold, as the blood flowed freely from around
the severed tendons of his wrist; and while Duncan
was drawn backward by the saving arm of Uncas, his
charmed eyes were still riveted on the fierce and disappointed countenance of his foe, who fell sullenly
and disappointed down the irrecoverable precipice.
   "To cover! to cover!" cried Hawk-eye, who
just then had despatched his enemy; "to cover, for
your lives! the work is but half ended!"
   The young Mohican gave a loud shout of triumph,
and followed by Duncan, he glided up the acclivity
they had descended to the combat, and sought the
friendly shelter of the rocks and shrubs.


Chapter 8
CHAPTER VIII.
     "They linger yet, 
Avengers of their native land." 
-- Gray. 
    
   The warning call of the scout was not uttered
without occasion. During the occurrence of the
deadly encounter just related, the roar of the falls was
unbroken by any human sound whatever. It would
seem, that interest in the result had kept the natives,
on the opposite shores, in breathless suspense, while
the quick evolutions and swift changes in the positions
of the combatants, effectually prevented a fire, that
might prove dangerous alike to friend and enemy. But
the moment the struggle was decided, a yell arose, as
fierce and savage as wild and revengeful passions
could throw into the air. It was followed by the
swift flashes of the rifles, which sent their leaden
messengers across the rock in vollies, as though the
assailants would pour out their impotent fury on the
insensible scene of the fatal contest.
   A steady, though deliberate, return was made from
the rifle of Chingachgook, who had maintained his
post throughout the fray with unmoved resolution.
When the triumphant shout of Uncas was borne to his
ears, the gratified father had raised his voice in a sin


gle responsive cry, after which his busy piece alone
proved that he still guarded his pass with unwearied
diligence. In this manner many minutes flew by with
the swiftness of thought; the rifles of the assailants
speaking, at times, in rattling vollies, and at others,
in occasional, scattering shots. Though the rock,
the trees, and the shrubs, were cut and torn in a hundred places around the besieged, their cover was so
close, and so rigidly maintained, that, as yet, David had
been the only sufferer in their little band.
   "Let them burn their powder," said the deliberate scout, while bullet after bullet whizzed by the place
where he so securely lay; "there will be a fine gathering of lead when it is over, and I fancy the imps
will tire of the sport, afore these old stones cry out
for mercy! Uncas, boy, you waste the kernels by
overcharging; and a kicking rifle never carries a true
bullet. I told you to take that loping miscreant
under the line of white paint; now, if your bullet went
a hair's breadth, it went two inches above it. The
life lies low in a Mingo, and humanity teaches us to
make a quick end of the sarpents."
