
   A quiet smile lighted the haughty features of the
young Mohican, betraying his knowledge of the English language, as well as of the others meaning, but
he suffered it to pass away without vindication or reply.
   "I cannot permit you to accuse Uncas of want of
judgment or of skill," said Duncan; "he saved my life
in the coolest and readiest manner, and he has made
a friend who never will require to be reminded of the
debt he owes."
   Uncas partly raised his body, and offered his hand


to the grasp of Heyward. During this act of friendship, the two young men exchanged looks of intelligence, which caused Duncan to forget the character
and condition of his wild associate. In the meanwhile, Hawk-eye, who looked on this burst of youthful feeling with a cool but kind regard, made the following calm reply:
   "Life is an obligation which friends often owe to
each other in the wilderness. I dare say I may have
served Uncas some such turn myself before now;
and I very well remember, that he has stood between
me and death five different times: three times from
the Mingoes, once in crossing Horican, and -- "
   "That bullet was better aimed than common!" exclaimed Duncan, involuntarily shrinking from a shot
which struck on the rock at his side with a smart
rebound.
   Hawk-eye laid his hand on the shapeless metal,
and shook his head, as he examined it, saying, " Falling lead is never flattened! had it come from the
clouds this might have happened!"
   But the rifle of Uncas was deliberately raised toward
the heavens, directing the eyes of his companions to a
point, where the mystery was immediately explained.
A ragged oak grew on the right bank of the river,
nearly opposite to their position, which, seeking the
freedom of the open space, had inclined so far forward, that its upper branches overhung that arm
of the stream which flowed nearest to its own shore.
Among the topmost leaves, which scantily concealed
the gnarled and stinted limbs, a dark looking savage
was nestled, partly concealed by the trunk of the


tree, and partly exposed, as though looking down upon them, to ascertain the effect produced by his
treacherous aim.
   "These devils will scale heaven to circumvent us
to our ruin," said Hawk-eye; "keep him in play,
boy, until I can bring `kill-deer' to bear, when we
will try his metal on each side of the tree at once."
   Uncas delayed his fire until the scout uttered the
word. The rifles flashed, the leaves and bark of the
oak flew into the air, and were scattered by the
wind, but the Indian answered their assault by a taunting laugh, sending down upon them another bullet in
return, that struck the cap of Hawk-eye from his head.
Once more the savage yells burst out of the woods,
and the leaden hail whistled above the heads of the
besieged, as if to confine them to a place where they
might become easy victims to the enterprise of the
warrior who had mounted the tree.
   "This must be looked to!" said the scout, glancing about him with an anxious eye. "Uncas, call
up your father; we have need of all our we'pons to
bring the cunning varment from his roost."
   The signal was instantly given; and, before Hawkeye had reloaded his rifle, they were joined by Chingachgook. When his son pointed out to the experienced warrior the situation of their dangerous enemy, the usual exclamatory "hugh," burst from his
lips; after which, no further expression of surprise
or alarm was suffered to escape from him. Hawkeye and the Mohicans conversed earnestly together in
Delaware for a few moments, when each quietly took


his post, in order to execute the plan they had speedily
devised.
   The warrior in the oak had maintained a quick,
though ineffectual, fire, from the moment of his discovery. But his aim was interrupted by the vigilance of
his enemies, whose rifles instantaneously bore on any
part of his person that was left exposed. Still
his bullets fell in the centre of the crouching party.
The clothes of Heyward, which rendered him peculiarly conspicuous, were repeatedly cut, and once
blood was drawn from a slight wound in his arm.
   At length, emboldened by the long and patient
watchfulness of his enemies, the Huron attempted a
better and more fatal aim. The quick eyes of the
Mohicans caught the dark line of his lower limbs
incautiously exposed through the thin foliage, a few inches from the trunk of the tree. Their rifles made a
common report, when, sinking on his wounded limb,
part of the body of the savage came into view. Swift
as thought, Hawk-eye seized the advantage, and discharged his fatal weapon into the top of the oak. The
leaves were unusually agitated; the dangerous rifle
fell from its commanding elevation, and after a few
moments of vain struggling, the form of the savage
was seen swinging in the wind, while he grasped a ragged and naked branch of the tree with his hands
clenched in desperation.
   "Give him, in pity, give him, the contents of another rifle!" cried Duncan, turning away his eyes in
horror from the spectacle of a fellow creature in such
awful jeopardy.
   "Not a karnel!" exclaimed the obdurate Hawkeye; "his death is certain, and we have no powder


to spare, for Indian fights, sometimes, last for days;
'tis their scalps, or ours! -- and God, who made us,
has put into our natures the craving after life!"
   Against this stern and unyielding morality, supported, as it was, by such visible policy, there was
no appeal. From that moment the yells in the forest
once more ceased, the fire was suffered to decline,
and all eyes, those of friends, as well as enemies, became fixed on the hopeless condition of the wretch,
who was dangling between heaven and earth. The
body yielded to the currents of air, and though no
murmur or groan escaped the victim, there were instants when he grimly faced his foes, and the anguish of cold despair might be traced, through the
intervening distance, in possession of his swarthy
lineaments. Three several times the scout raised his
piece in mercy, and as often prudence getting the better of his intention, it was again silently lowered.
At length, one hand of the Huron lost its hold, and
dropped exhausted to his side. A desperate and
fruitless struggle to recover the branch succeeded,
and then the savage was seen for a fleeting instant,
grasping wildly at the empty air. The lightning is
not quicker than was the flame from the rifle of
Hawk-eye; the limbs of the victim trembled and contracted, the head fell to the bosom, and the body parted the foaming waters, like lead, when the element
closed above it, in its ceaseless velocity, and every
vestige of the unhappy Huron was lost for ever.
   No shout of triumph succeeded this important advantage, but the Mohicans gazed at each other in
silent horror. A single yell burst from the woods,


and all was again still. Hawk-eye, who alone appeared to reason on the occasion, shook his head,
at his own momentary weakness, even uttering his
self-disapprobation aloud.
   " 'Twas the last charge in my horn, and the last
bullet in my pouch, and 'twas the act of a boy!" he
said; "what mattered it whether he struck the rock
living or dead! feeling would soon be over. Uncas,
lad, go down to the canoe, and bring up the big horn;
it is all the powder we have left, and we shall need
it to the last grain, or I am ignorant of the Mingo
nature."
   The young Mohican instantly complied, leaving
the scout turning over the useless contents of his
pouch, and shaking the empty horn with renewed
discontent. From this unsatisfactory examination,
however, he was soon called by a loud and piercing
exclamation from Uncas, that sounded even to the
unpractised ears of Duncan, as the signal of some
new and unexpected calamity. Every thought
filled with apprehension for the precious treasure he
had concealed in the cavern, the young man started
to his feet, totally regardless of the hazard he incurred
by such an exposure. As if actuated by a common impulse, his movement was imitated by his companions,
and, together, they rushed down the pass to the
friendly chasm, with a rapidity that rendered the
scattering fire of their enemies perfectly harmless.
The unwonted cry had brought the sisters, together
with the wounded David, from their place of refuge,
and the whole party, at a single glance, was made acquainted with the nature of the disaster, that had dis


turbed even the practised stoicism of their youthful
Indian protector.
   At a short distance from the rock, their little bark
was to be seen floating across the eddy, towards the
swift current of the river, in a manner which proved
that its course was directed by some hidden agent.
The instant this unwelcome sight caught the eye of the
scout, his rifle was levelled, as by instinct, but the
barrel gave no answer to the bright sparks of the flint.
   " 'Tis too late, 'tis too late!" Hawk-eye exclaimed, dropping the useless piece, in bitter disappointment; "the miscreant has struck the rapid, and had
we powder, it could hardly send the lead swifter than
he now goes!"
   As he ended, the adventurous Huron raised his head
above the shelter of the canoe, and while it glided
swiftly down the stream, waved his hand, and gave
forth the shout, which was the known signal of success. His cry was answered by a yell, and a laugh
from the woods, as tauntingly exulting as if fifty demons were uttering their blasphemies at the fall of
some Christian soul.
