
   "Well may you laugh, ye children of the devil!"
said the scout, seating himself on a projection of the
rock, and suffering his gun to fall neglected at his feet,
"for the three quickest and truest rifles in these
woods, are no better than so many stalks of mullen,
or the last year's horns of a buck!"
   "What, then, is to be done?" demanded Duncan,
losing the first feeling of disappointment, in a more
manly desire for exertion; "what will become of
us?"


    
   Hawk-eye made no other reply than by passing
his finger around the crown of his head, in a manner
so significant, that none who witnessed the action
could mistake its meaning.
   "Surely, surely, our case is not so desperate!"
exclaimed the youth; "the Hurons are not here; we
may make good the caverns; we may oppose their
landing."
   "With what?" coolly demanded the scout.
"The arrows of Uncas, or such tears as women shed!
No, no; you are young, and rich, and have friends,
and at such an age I know it is hard to die! but,"
glancing his eyes at the Mohicans, "let us remember, we are men without a cross, and let us teach
these natives of the forest, that white blood can run
as freely as red, when the appointed hour is come."
   Duncan turned quickly in the direction indicated by
the other's eyes, and read a confirmation of his worst
apprehensions in the conduct of the Indians. Chingachgook, placing himself in a dignified posture on
another fragment of the rock, had already laid aside
his knife and tomahawk, and was in the act of taking
the eagle's plume from his head, and smoothing the
solitary tuft of hair, in readiness to perform its last
and revolting office. His countenance was composed, though thoughtful, while his dark, gleaming eyes,
were gradually losing the fierceness of the combat in
an expression better suited to the change he expected,
momentarily, to undergo.
   "Our case is not, cannot, be so hopeless!" said
Duncan; "even at this very moment succour may
be at hand. I see no enemies! they have sickened.


of a struggle, in which they risk so much with so
little prospect of gain?"
   "It may be a minute, or it may be an hour, afore
the wily sarpents steal upon us, and its quite in natur
for them to be lying within hearing at this very moment," said Hawk-eye; "but come they will, and
in such a fashion as will leave us nothing to hope!
Chingachgook" -- he spoke in Delaware -- "my brother, we have fought our last battle together, and the
Maquas will triumph in the death of the sage man of
the Mohicans, and of the pale face, whose eyes can
make night as day, and level the clouds to the mists of
the springs!"
   "Let the Mingo women go weep over their slain!"
returned the Indian, with characteristic pride, and
unmoved firmness; "the great snake of the Mohicans has coiled himself in their wigwams, and has
poisoned their triumph with the wailings of children,
whose fathers have not returned! Eleven warriors
lie hid from the graves of their tribe, since the snows
have melted, and none will tell where to find them,
when the tongue of Chingachgook shall be silent! Let
them draw the sharpest knife, and whirl the swiftest
tomahawk, for their bitterest enemy is in their hands.
Uncas, my boy, topmost branch of a noble trunk, call
on the cowards to hasten, or their hearts will soften,
and they will change to women!"
   "They look among the fishes for their dead!" returned the low, soft voice of the youthful chieftain;
"the Hurons float with the slimy eels! They drop
from the oaks like fruit that is ready to be eaten! and
the Delawares laugh!"
   "Ay, ay," muttered the scout, who had listened to


this peculiar burst of the natives with deep attention;
"they have warmed their Indian feelings, and they'll
soon provoke the Maquas to give them a speedy end.
As for me, who am of the whole blood of the whites,
it is befitting that I should die as becomes my colour,
with no words of scoffing in my mouth, and without
bitterness at the heart!"
   "Why die at all!" said Cora, advancing from the
place where natural horror had, until this moment,
held her riveted to the rock; "the path is open on
every side; fly, then, to the woods, and call on God
for succour! Go, brave men, we owe you too much
already; let us no longer involve you in our hapless
fortunes!"
   "You but little know the craft of the Iroquois,
lady, if you judge they have left the path open to the
woods!" returned Hawk-eye, who, however, immediately added in his simplicity; "the down stream current, it is certain, might soon sweep us beyond the
reach of their rifles, or the sounds of their voices."
   "Then try the river. Why linger, to add to the
number of the victims of our merciless enemies?"
   "Why!" repeated the scout, looking about him
proudly, "because it is better for a man to die at
peace with himself, than to live haunted by an evil
conscience! What answer could we give to Munro,
when he asked us, where and how we left his children?"
   "Go to him, and say, that you left them with a
message to hasten to their aid," returned Cora, advancing nigher to the scout, in her generous ardour;
"that the Hurons bear them into the northern wilds,


but that by vigilance and speed they may yet be rescued; and if, after all, it should please heaven, that
his assistance come too late, bear to him," she continued, the firm tones of her voice gradually lowering,
until they seemed nearly choked, "the love, the
blessings, the final prayers of his daughters, and bid
him not to mourn their early fate, but to look forward with humble confidence to the Christian's goal
to meet his children."
   The hard, weather-beaten features of the scout
began sensibly to work, as he listened, and when she
had ended, he dropped his chin to his hand, like a
man musing profoundly on the nature of her proposal.
   "There is reason in her words!" at length broke
from his compressed and trembling lips; "ay, and
they bear the spirit of christianity; what might be
right and proper in a red skin, may be sinful in a man
who has not even a cross in blood to plead for his
ignorance. Chingachgook! Uncas! hear you the
talk of the dark-eyed woman!"
   He now spoke in Delaware to his companions, and
his address, though calm and deliberate, seemed very
decided. The elder Mohican heard him with deep
gravity, and appeared to ponder on his words, as
though he felt the importance of their import. After a moment of hesitation, he waved his hand in
assent, and uttered the English word "good," with
the peculiar emphasis of his people. Then, replacing his knife and tomahawk in his girdle, the warrior moved silently to the edge of the rock most concealed from the hostile banks of the river. Here


he paused a moment, pointed significantly to the woods
below, and saying a few words in his own language,
as if indicating his intended route, he dropped into the
water, and sunk from before the eyes of the anxious
witnesses of his movements.
   The scout delayed his departure to speak to the
generous maiden, whose breathing became lighter as
she saw the success of her remonstrance.
   "Wisdom is sometimes given to the young, as well
as to the old," he said; "and what you have spoken
is wise, not to call it by a better word. If you are led
into the woods, that is, such of you as may be spared
for a while, break the twigs on the bushes as you
pass, and make the marks of your trail, as broad as
you can, when, if mortal eyes can see them, depend
on having a friend who will follow to the ends of the
'arth afore he desarts you."
   He gave Cora an affectionate shake of the hand,
lifted his rifle, and after regarding it a moment with
melancholy solicitude, laid it carefully aside, and descended to the place where Chingachgook had just
disappeared. For an instant he hung suspended by
the rock; and looking about him, with a countenance
of peculiar care, he added, bitterly, "Had the powder
held out, this disgrace could never have befallen!"
then, loosening his hold, the water closed above his
head, and he also became lost to view.
   All eyes were now turned on Uncas, who stood
leaning against the ragged rock, in immoveable composure. After waiting a short time, Cora pointed
down the river, and said -- 
   "Your friends, as you perceive, have not been


