
seen, and are now, most probably, in safety; is it not
time for you to follow?"
   "Uncas will stay," the young Mohican calmly answered, in his imperfect English.
   "To increase the horror of our capture, and to
diminish the chances of our release! Go, generous
young man," Cora continued, lowering her eyes under the ardent gaze of the Mohican, and, perhaps,
with an inuitive consciousness of her power; "go
to my father, as I have said, and be the most confidential of my messengers. Tell him to trust you
with the means to buy the freedom of his daughters.
Go; 'tis my wish, 'tis my prayer, that you will go!"
   The settled, calm, look of the young chief, changed
to an expression of gloom, but he no longer hesitated.
With a noiseless step he crossed the rock, and dropped
into the troubled stream. Hardly a breath was drawn
by those he left behind, until they caught a glimpse
of his head emerging for air, far down the current,
when he again sunk, and was seen no more.
   These sudden and apparently successful experiments had all taken place in a few minutes of that
time, which had now become so precious. After the
last look at Uncas, Cora turned, and, with a quivering
lip, addressed herself to Heyward:
   "I have heard of your boasted skill in the water,
too, Duncan," she said; "follow, then, the wise example set you by these simple and faithful beings."
   "Is such the faith that Cora Munro would exact
from her protector," said the young man, smiling,
mournfully, but with bitterness.
   "This is not a time for idle subtleties and false


opinions," she answered; "but a moment when
every duty should be equally considered. To us
you can be of no further service here, but your precious life may be saved for other and nearer friends."
   He made no reply, though his eyes fell wistfully
on the beautiful form of Alice, who was clinging to
his arm with the dependency of an infant.
   "Consider, after all," continued Cora, after a pause
of a moment, during which she seemed to struggle
with a pang, even more acute than any that her fears
had excited, "the worst to us can be but death; a
tribute that all must pay at the good time of God's
appointment."
   "There are evils even worse than death," said
Duncan, speaking hoarsely, and as if fretful at her
importunity, "but which the presence of one who
would die in your behalf may avert."
   Cora instantly ceased her entreaties, and veiling
her face in her shawl, drew the nearly insensible
Alice after her into the deepest recess of the inner cavern.


Chapter 9
CHAPTER IX.
     "Be gay securely; 
Dispel, my fair, with smiles, the tim'rous clouds, 
That hang on thy clear brow." 
-- Death of Agrippina. 
    
   The sudden and almost magical change, from the
stirring incidents of the combat, to the stillness that
now reigned around him, acted on the heated imagination of Heyward like some exciting dream. While
all the images and events he had witnessed remained
deeply impressed on his memory, he felt a difficulty
in persuading himself of their truth. Still ignorant
of the fate of those who had trusted to the aid of the
swift current, he at first listened intently to any signal, or sounds of alarm, which might announce the
good or evil fortune of their hazardous undertaking.
His attention was, however, bestowed in vain; for with
the disappearance of Uncas, every sign of the adventurers had been lost, leaving him in total uncertainty
of their subsequent fate.
   In a moment of such painful doubt, Duncan did
not hesitate to look about him, without consulting that
protection from the rocks which just before had been
so necessary to his safety. Every effort, however,
to detect the least evidence of the approach of their
hidden enemies, was as fruitless as the inquiry after


his late companions. The wooded banks of the
river seemed again deserted by every thing possessing
animal life. The uproar which had so lately echoed
through the vaults of the forest was gone, leaving
the rush of the waters to swell and sink on the currents of the air, in the unmingled sweetness of nature.
A fish-hawk, who, secure on the topmost branches of
a dead pine, had been a distant spectator of the fray,
now stooped from his high and ragged perch, and soared, in wide sweeps, above his prey; while a jay, whose
noisy voice had been stilled by the hoarser cries of the
savages, ventured again to open his discordant throat,
as though once more left in undisturbed possession
of his wild domains. Duncan caught from these natural accompaniments of the solitary scene a glimmering of hope, and he began to rally his faculties to
renewed exertions, with something like a reviving
confidence in their success.
   "The Hurons are not to be seen," he said, addressing David, whose faculties had by no means recovered from the effects of the stunning blow he had
received; "let us conceal ourselves in the cavern,
and trust the rest to Providence."
   "I remember to have united with two comely maidens, in lifting up our voices in praise and thanksgiving," returned the bewildered singing-master;
"since which time I have been visited by a heavy
judgment for my sins. I have been mocked with the
likeness of sleep, while sounds of discord have rent
my ears; such as might manifest the fullness of time,
and that nature had forgotten her harmony."
   "Poor fellow! thine own period was, in truth, near


its accomplishment! But arouse, and come with me;
I will lead you where all other sounds, but those of
your own psalmody, shall be excluded."
   "There is melody in the fall of the cataract, and
the rushing of many waters is sweet to the senses!"
said David, pressing his hand confusedly on his brow.
"Is not the air yet filled with shrieks and cries, as
though the departed spirits of the damned -- "
   "Not now, not now," interrupted the impatient
Heyward, "they have ceased; and they who raised
them, I trust in God, they are gone too! every thing
but the water is still and at peace; in, then, where
you may create those sounds you love so well to
hear."
   David smiled sadly, though not without a momentary
gleam of pleasure lighting his countenance, at this allusion to his beloved vocation. He no longer hesitated to be led to a spot, which promised such unalloyed gratification to his wearied senses; and, leaning
on the arm of his companion, he entered the narrow
mouth of the cave. Duncan seized a pile of the
sassafras, which he drew before the passage, studiously
concealing every appearance of an aperture. Within this fragile barrier he arranged the blankets abandonded by the foresters, darkening the inner extremity of the cavern, while its outer received a chastened light from the narrow ravine, through which
one arm of the river rushed, to form the junction with
its sister branch, a few rods below.
   "I like not that principle of the natives, which
teaches them to submit without a struggle, in emergencies that appear desperate," he said, while busied


