
in this employment; "our own maxim, which says,
`while life remains there is hope,' is more consoling,
and better suited to a soldier's temperament. To
you, Cora, I will urge no words of idle encouragement; your own fortitude and undisturbed reason,
will teach you all that may become your sex; but
cannot we dry the tears of that trembling weeper in
your bosom?"
   "I am calmer, Duncan," said Alice, raising herself from the arms of her sister, and forcing an appearance of composure through her tears; "much
calmer, now. Surely, in this hidden spot, we are
safe, we are secret, free from injury; we will hope
every thing from those generous men, who have risked so much already in our behalf."
   "Now does our gentle Alice speak like a daughter of Munro!" said Heyward, pausing to press
her hands as he passed towards the outer entrance of
the cavern. "With two such examples of courage
before him, a man would be ashamed to prove other
than a hero." He then seated himself in the centre
of the cavern, grasping his remaining pistol with a
hand firmly clenched, while his contracted and frowning eye announced the sullen desperation of his purpose. "The Hurons, if they come, may not gain
our position so easily as they think," he lowly muttered; and dropping his head back against the rock,
he seemed to await the result in patience, though
his gaze was unceasingly bent on the open avenue to
their place of retreat.
   With the last sound of his voice, a deep, a long,
and almost breathless silence succeeded. The fresh


air of the morning had penetrated the recess, and
its influence was gradually felt on the spirits of its inmates. As minute after minute passed by, leaving
them in undisturbed security, the insinuating feeling
of hope was gradually gaining possession of every
bosom, though each one felt reluctant to give utterance
to expectations that the next moment might so fearfully destroy.
   David alone formed an exception to these varying
emotions. A gleam of light from the opening crossed
his wan countenance, and fell upon the pages of
the little volume, whose leaves he was again occupied in turning, as if searching for some song more
fitted to their condition than any that had yet met his
eye. He was most probably acting all this time under a confused recollection of the promised consolation of Duncan. At length, it would seem, his patient
industry found its reward; for, without explanation
or apology, he pronounced aloud the characteristic
appellation of "Isle of Wight," drew a long, sweet
sound from his pitch-pipe, and then ran through the
preliminary modulations of the air, whose name he
he had just mentioned, with the sweeter tones of his
own musical voice.
   "May not this prove dangerous?" asked Cora,
glancing her dark eyes at Major Heyward.
   "Poor fellow! his voice is too feeble to be heard
amid the din of the falls," was the answer; "besides,
the cavern will prove his friend. Let him, then, indulge his passion, since it may be done without hazard."
   "Isle of Wight!" repeated David, looking about


him with all that imposing dignity with which he had
long been wont to silence the whispering echoes of
his school; " 'tis a brave tune, and set to solemn
words; let it therefore be sung with meet respect!"
   After allowing a moment of awful stillness to enforce his discipline, the voice of the singer was heard,
in low, murmuring syllables, gradually stealing on
the ear, until it filled the narrow vault, with sounds,
rendered trebly thrilling by the feeble and tremulous
utterance produced by his debility. The melody
which no weakness could destroy, gradually wrought
its sweet influence on the senses of those who heard it.
It even prevailed over the miserable travesty of the
song of David, which, after so much diligence, the singer had selected from a volume of similar effusions, and
caused the sense to be forgotten, in the insinuating harmony of the sounds. Alice unconsciously dried her
tears, and bent her melting eyes on the pallid features
of Gamut, with an expression of chastened delight,
that she neither affected, nor wished to conceal.
Cora bestowed an approving smile on the pious efforts
of the namesake of the Jewish prince, and Heyward
soon turned his steady, stern, look from the outlet of
the cavern, to fasten it, with a milder character, on
the face of David, or to meet the wandering beams
which at moments strayed from the humid eyes of
Alice. The open sympathy of the listeners soon stirred the spirit of the votary of music, whose voice regained its richness and volume, without losing that
touching softness which proved its secret charm. Exerting his renovated powers to their utmost, he was
yet filling the arches of the cave with long and full


tones, when a yell burst into the air without, that
instantly stilled his pious strains, choking his voice
suddenly, as though his heart had literally bounded into the passage of his throat.
   "We are lost!" exclaimed Alice, throwing herself
into the expanded arms of Cora.
   "Not yet, not yet," returned the agitated but undaunted Heyward; "the sound came from the centre
of the island, and it has been produced by the sight
of their dead companions. We are not yet discovered, and there is still hope."
   Faint and almost despairing as was the prospect of
escape, the words of Duncan were not thrown away,
for it awakened the powers of the sisters in such a
manner, that they awaited the result in silence. A
second yell soon followed the first, when a rush of
voices was heard pouring down the island, from its
upper to its lower extremity, until they reached the
naked rock above the caverns, where, after a shout of
savage triumph, the air continued full of horrible
cries and screams, such as man alone can utter, and
he only when in a state of the fiercest barbarity.
   The sounds quickly spread around them in every
direction. Some called to their fellows from the
water's edge, and were answered from the heights
above. Cries were heard in the startling vicinity of
the chasm between the two caves, which mingled
with hoarser yells that arose out of the abyss of the
deep ravine. In short, so rapidly had the savage
sounds diffused themselves over the barren rock, that
it was not difficult for the anxious listeners to imagine


that they could be heard beneath, as, in truth, they
were above, and on every side of them.
   In the midst of this tumult, a triumphant yell was
raised within a few feet of the hidden entrance to the
cave. Heyward abandoned every hope, with the
belief it was the signal that they were discovered.
Again the impression passed away, as he heard the
voices collect near the spot where the white man had
so reluctantly abandoned his rifle. Amid the jargon
of the Indian dialects that he now plainly heard, it
was easy to distinguish not only words, but sentences in the patois of the Canadas. A burst of
voices had shouted, simultaneously, "la Longue Carabine!" causing the opposite woods to re-echo
with a name which Heyward well remembered to have
heard, had been given by his enemies to a celebrated
hunter and scout of the English camp, and who he
now learnt, for the first time, had been his late companion.
   "La Longue Carabine! la Longue Carabine!" passed from mouth to mouth, until the whole band appeared to be collected around a trophy, which would
seem to announce the death of its formidable owner.
After a vociferous consultation, which was, at times,
deafened by bursts of savage joy, they again separated, filling the air with the name of a foe, whose body,
Heyward could collect from their expressions, they
hoped to find concealed in some crevice of the
island.
   "Now," he whispered to the trembling sisters,
"now is the moment of uncertainty! if our place of
retreat escape this scrutiny, we are still safe! In


every event, we are assured, by what has fallen from
our enemies, that our friends have escaped, and in
two short hours we may look for succour from Webb."
   There were now a few minutes of fearful stillness,
during which Heyward well knew that the savages
conducted their search with greater vigilance and
method. More than once he could distinguish their
footsteps, as they brushed the sassafras, causing the
faded leaves to rustle, and the branches to snap. At
length, the pile yielded a little, a corner of a blanket
fell, and a faint ray of light gleamed into the inner
part of the cave. Cora folded Agnes to her bosom
in agony, and Duncan sprang like lightning to his
feet. A shout was at that moment heard, as if issuing from the centre of the rock, announcing that the
neighbouring cavern had at length been entered. In
a minute, the number and loudness of the voices indicated that the whole party were collected in and
around that secret place.
   As the inner passages to the two caves were so close
to each other, Duncan, believing that escape was no
longer possible, passed David and the sisters, to place
himself between the latter and the first onset of the
terrible meeting. Grown desperate by his situation,
he drew nigh the slight barrier which separated him
only by a few feet from his relentless pursuers, and placing his face to the casual opening, he even looked
out, with a sort of appalling indifference, on their
movements.
   Within reach of his arm was the brawny shoulder
of a gigantic Indian, whose deep and authoritative
voice appeared to give directions to the proceedings


of his fellows. Beyond him again, Duncan could
look into the deep vault opposite, which was filled
with savages, upturning and rifling the humble furniture of the scout. The wound of David had died
the leaves of sassafras with a colour, that the natives well knew was anticipating the season. Over
this sign of their success, they set up a howl, like an
opening from so many hounds, who had recovered
their lost trail. After this yell of victory, they tore up
the fragrant bed of the cavern, and bore the branches
into the chasm, scattering the boughs, as if they suspected them of concealing the person of the man they
had so long hated and feared. One fierce and wild
looking warrior, approached the chief, bearing a load
of the brush, and pointing, exultingly, to the deep red
stains with which it was sprinkled, uttered his joy in
Indian yells, whose meaning Heyward was only enabled to comprehend, by the frequent repetition of the
name of "la Longue Carabine!" When his triumph
had ceased, he cast the brush on the slight heap that
Duncan had made before the entrance of the second
cavern, and closed the view. His example was followed by others; who, as they drew the branches from
the cave of the scout, threw them into one pile, adding
unconsciously to the security of those they sought.
The very slightness of the defence was its chief merit, for no one thought of disturbing a mass of brush,
which all of them believed, in that moment of hurry
and confusion, had been accidentally raised by the
hands of their own party.
