
   As the blankets yielded before the outward pressure, and the branches settled into the fissure of the


rock by its own weight, forming a compact body,
Duncan once more breathed freely. With a light
step, and lighter heart, he returned to the centre of
the cave, and took the place he had left, where he
could command a view of the opening next the river.
While he was in the act of making this movement,
the Indians, as if changing their purpose by a common impulse, broke away from the chasm in a body,
and were heard rushing up the island again, towards
the point, whence they had originally descended.
Here another wailing cry betrayed that they were
again collected around the bodies of their dead comrades.
   Duncan now ventured to look at his companions;
for, during the most critical moments of their danger,
he had been apprehensive that the anxiety of his
countenance might communicate some additional
alarm, to those who were so little able to sustain it.
   "They are gone, Cora!" he whispered; "Alice,
they are returned whence they came, and we are saved! To heaven, that has alone delivered us from
the grasp of so merciless an enemy, be all the praise!"
   "Then to heaven will I return my thanks!" exclaimed the younger sister, rising from the encircling
arms of Cora, and casting herself, with enthusiastic
gratitude, on the naked rock to her knees; "to that
heaven who has spared the tears of a gray-headed
father; has saved the lives of those I so much love -- "
   Both Heyward, and the more tempered Cora, witnessed the act of involuntary emotion with powerful
sympathy, the former secretly believing that piety
had never worn a form so lovely, as it had now assu


med in the youthful person of Alice. Her eyes
were radiant with the glow of her grateful feelings;
the flush of her beauty was again seated on her cheeks,
and her whole soul seemed ready and anxious to pour
out its thanksgivings, through the medium of her eloquent features. But when her lips moved, the words
they should have uttered appeared frozen by some new
and sudden chill. Her bloom gave place to the
paleness of death; her soft and melting eyes grew
hard, and seemed contracting with horror; while
those hands, which she had raised, clasped in each
other, towards heaven, dropped in horizontal lines before her, the fingers pointing forward in convulsed
motion. Heyward turned the instant she gave a direction to his suspicions, and, peering just above the
ledge which formed the threshold of the open outlet
of the cavern, he beheld the malignant, fierce, and savage features of le Renard Subtil.
   In that moment of horrid surprise, the self-possession of Heyward did not desert him. He observed
by the vacant expression of the Indian's countenance,
that his eye, accustomed to the open air, had not yet
been able to penetrate the dusky light which pervaded the depth of the cavern. He had even thought of
retreating beyond a curvature in the natural wall,
which might still conceal him and his companions,
when, by the sudden gleam of intelligence that shot
across the features of the savage, he saw it was too
late, and that they were betrayed.
   The look of exultation and brutal triumph which
announced this terrible truth, was irresistibly irritating. Forgetful of every thing but the impulses of


his hot blood, Duncan levelled his pistol and fired.
The report of the weapon made the cavern bellow
like an eruption from a volcano, and when the smoke,
it vomited, had driven away before the current of air
which issued from the ravine, the place so lately occupied by the features of his treacherous guide was
vacant. Rushing to the outlet, Heyward caught a
glimpse of his dark figure, stealing around a low and narrow ledge, which soon hid him entirely from his sight.
   Among the savages, a frightful stillness succeeded the
explosion, which had just been heard bursting from the
bowels of the rock. But when le Renard raised his
voice in a long and intelligible whoop, it was answered
by a spontaneous yell from the mouth of every Indian
within hearing of the sound. The clamorous noises
again rushed down the island, and before Duncan had
time to recover from the shock, his feeble barrier of
brush was scattered to the winds, the cavern was entered at both its extremities, and he and his companions
were dragged from their shelter, and borne into the
day, where they stood surrounded by the whole band
of the triumphant Hurons.


Chapter 10
CHAPTER X.
"I fear we shall outsleep the coming morn, 
As much as we this night have overwatched!" 
Midsummer's Night Dream. 
    
   The instant the first shock of this sudden misfortune
had abated, Duncan began to make his observations
on the appearance and proceedings of their captors.
Contrary to the usages of the natives in the wantonness of their success, they had respected, not only the
persons of the trembling sisters, but his own. The
rich ornaments of his military attire, had indeed been
repeatedly handled by different individuals of the tribe,
with eyes expressing a savage longing to possess the
baubles, but before the customary violence could be resorted to, a mandate, in the authoritative voice of the
large warrior already mentioned, stayed the uplifted
hand, and convinced Heyward that they were to be
reserved for some object of particular moment.
   While, however, these manifestations of weakness
were exhibited by the young and vain of the party,
the more experienced warriors continued their
search throughout both caverns, with an activity that
denoted they were far from being satisfied with those
fruits of their conquest, which had already been
brought to light. Unable to discover any new vic


tim. these diligent workers of vengeance soon approached their male prisoners, pronouncing the name
of "la Longue Carabine," with a fierceness that
could not easily be mistaken. Duncan affected not
to comprehend the meaning of their repeated and
violent interrogatories, while his companion was spared the effort of a similar deception, by his ignorance
of French. Wearied, at length, by their importunities, and apprehensive of irritating his captors by too
stubborn a silence, the former looked about him in
quest of Magua, who might interpret his answers to
those questions which were, at each moment, becoming more earnest and threatening.
   The conduct of this savage had formed a solitary
exception to that of all his fellows. While the others
were busily occupied in seeking to gratify their
childish passion for finery, by plundering even the miserable effects of the scout, or had been searching, with
such blood-thirsty vengeance in their looks, for their
absent owner, le Renard had stood at a little distance from the prisoners, with a demeanour so quiet
and satisfied, as to betray, that he, at least, had already effected the grand purpose of his treachery.
When the eyes of Heyward first met those of his recent guide, he turned them away, in horror, at the sinister though calm look he encountered. Conquering his
disgust, however, he was able, with an averted face,
to address his successful enemy:
   "Le Renard Subtil is too much of a warrior,"
said the reluctant Heyward, "to refuse telling an unarmed man what his conquerors say."
   "They ask for the hunter who knows the paths


through the woods," returned Magua, in his broken
English, laying his hand, at the same time, with a ferocious smile, on the bundle of leaves, with which
a wound on his own shoulder was bandaged; "la
Longue Carabine! his rifle is good, and his eye never
shut; but, like the short gun of the white chief, it is
nothing against the life of le Subtil!"
   "Le Renard is too brave to remember the hurts
he has received in war, or the hands that gave them!"
