
   "Was it war, when the tired Indian rested at the
sugar tree, to taste his corn! who filled the bushes
with creeping enemies! who drew the knife! whose
tongue was peace, while his heart was coloured with
blood! Did Magua say that the hatchet was out of
the ground, and that his hand had dug it up?"
   As Duncan dare not retort upon his accuser, by
reminding him of his own premeditated treachery,
and disdained to deprecate his resentment by any
words of apology, he remained silent. Magua seemed
also content to rest the controversy, as well as all further communication, there, for he resumed the leaning
attitude against the rock, from which, in his momentary energy, he had arisen. But the cry of "la
Longue Carabine," was renewed, the instant the impatient savages perceived that the short dialogue was
ended.
   "You hear," said Magua, with stubborn indifference; "the red Hurons call for the life of the `long
rifle,' or they will have the blood of them that keep
him hid!"
   "He is gone -- escaped; he is far beyond their
reach."


    
   Renard smiled with cold contempt, as he answered:
   "When the white man dies, he thinks he is at
peace; but the red men know how to torture even
the ghosts of their enemies. Where is his body?
Let the Hurons see his scalp!"
   "He is not dead, but escaped."
   Magua shook his head incredulously, and added -- 
   "Is he a bird, to spread his wings; or is he a fish,
to swim without looking at the sun! The white chief
reads in his books, and believes the Hurons are
fools!"
   "Though no fish, the `long rifle' can swim. He
floated down the stream when the powder was all
burnt, and when the eyes of the Hurons were behind
a cloud."
   "And why did the white chief stay?" demanded
the still incredulous Indian. "Is he a stone, that goes
to the bottom, or does the scalp burn his head?"
   "That I am not a stone, your dead comrade, who
fell into the falls, might answer, were the life still in
him," said the provoked young man, using, in his
anger, that boastful language which was most likely
to excite the admiration of an Indian. "The white
man thinks none but cowards desert their women."
   Magua muttered a few words, inaudibly, between
his teeth, before he continued, aloud -- 
   "Can the Delawares swim, too, as well as crawl
in the bushes? Where is `le Gros Serpent'?"
   Duncan, who perceived by the use of these Canadian appellations, that his late companions were
much better known to his enemies than to himself,


answered, reluctantly: "He also is gone down with
the water."
   " `Le Cerf Agile' is not here?"
   "I know not whom you call the `nimble deer,' said
Duncan, gladly profiting by any excuse to create delay.
   "Uncas," returned Magua, pronouncing the Delaware name with even greater difficulty than he
spoke his English words. " `Bounding elk' is what
the white man says when he calls to the young Mohican."
   "Here is some confusion in names between us, le
Renard," said Duncan, hoping to provoke a discussion. "Daim is the French for deer, and cerf for
stag; élan is the true term, when one would speak of
an elk."
   "Yes," muttered the Indian, in his native tongue;
"the pale faces are prattling women! they have
two words for each thing, while a red skin will make
the sound of his voice speak for him." Then changing his language, he continued, adhering to the imperfect nomenclature of his provincial instructers, "The
deer is swift, but weak; the elk is swift, but strong;
and the son of `le serpent' is `le cerf agile.' Has
he leaped the river to the woods?"
   "If you mean the younger Delaware, he too is
gone down with the water."
   As there was nothing improbable to an Indian, in
the manner of the escape, Magua admitted the truth
of what he had heard, with a readiness that afforded
additional evidence how little he would prize such


worthless captives. With his companions, however,
the feeling was manifestly different.
   The Hurons had awaited the result of this short
dialogue with characteristic patience, and with a silence, that increased, until there was a general stillness in the band. When Heyward ceased to speak,
they turned their eyes, as one man, on Magua, demanding, in this expressive manner, an explanation of
what had been said. Their interpreter pointed to the
river, and made them acquainted with the result, as
much by the action as by the few words he uttered.
When the fact was generally understood, the savages
raised a frightful yell, which declared the extent of
their disappointment. Some ran furiously to the
water's edge, beating the air with frantic gestures,
while others spat upon the element, to resent the supposed treason it had committed against their acknowledged rights as conquerors. A few, and they not
the least powerful and terrific of the band, threw
lowering, sullen looks, in which the fiercest passion
was only tempered by habitual self-command, at
those captives who still remained in their power;
while one or two even gave vent to their malignant
feelings by the most menacing gestures, against which
neither the sex, nor the beauty of the sisters, was any
protection. The young soldier made a desperate, but
fruitless, effort to spring to the side of Alice, when he
saw the dark hand of a savage twisted in the rich tresses,
which were flowing in volumes over her shoulders,
while a knife was passed around the head from which
they fell, as if to denote the horrid manner in which
it was about to be robbed of its beautiful ornament,


But his hands were bound, and at the first movement
he made, he felt the grasp of the powerful Indian,
who directed the band, pressing his shoulder like a
vice. Immediately conscious how unavailing any
struggle against such an overwhelming force must
prove, he submitted to his fate, encouraging his gentle companions, by a few low and tender assurances,
that the natives seldom failed to threaten more than
they performed.
   But, while Duncan resorted to these words of consolation, to lull the apprehensions of the sisters, he was
not so weak as to deceive himself. He well knew
that the authority of an Indian chief was so little conventional, that it was oftener maintained by his
physical superiority, than by any moral supremacy
he might possess. The danger was, therefore, magnified exactly in proportion to the number of the savage spirits by which they were surrounded. The
most positive mandate from him, who seemed the acknowledged leader, was liable to be violated, at each
moment, by any rash hand that might choose to sacrifice a victim to the manes of some dead friend or relative. While, therefore, he sustained an outward
appearance of calmness and fortitude, his heart leaped into his throat, whenever any of their fierce captors drew nigher than common to the helpless sisters,
or fastened one of their sullen wandering looks on
those fragile forms, which were so little able to resist
the slightest assault.
   His apprehensions were however greatly relieved,
when he saw that the leader had summoned his warriors to himself in council. Their deliberations were


short, and it would seem, by the silence of most of the
party, the decision unanimous. By the frequency with
which the few speakers pointed in the direction of
the encampment of Webb, it was apparent they
dreaded the approach of danger from that quarter.
This consideration probably hastened their determination, and quickened the subsequent movements.
   During this short conference, Heyward finding a
respite from his greatest fears, had leisure to admire
the cautious manner in which the Hurons had made
their approaches, even after hostilities had ceased.
   It has already been stated, that the upper half of
the island was a naked rock, and destitute of any
other defences than a few scattering logs of drift
wood. They had selected this point to make their
descent, having borne the canoe through the wood,
around the cataract, for that purpose. Placing their
arms in the little vessel, a dozen men, clinging to
its sides, had trusted themselves to the direction of
the canoe, which was controlled by two of the most
skilful warriors, in attitudes, that enabled them to command a view of the dangerous passage. Favoured by
this arrangement, they touched the head of the island,
at that point which had proved so fatal to their first
adventures, but with the advantages of superior numbers, and the possession of fire arms. That such had
been the manner of their descent, was rendered quite
apparent to Duncan, for they now bore the light bark
from the upper end of the rock, and placed it in the
water, near the mouth of the outer cavern. As soon
as this change was made, the leader made signs to
the prisoners to descend and enter.
