


    
   As resistance was impossible, and remonstrance
useless, Heyward set the example of submission, by
leading the way into the canoe, where he was soon
seated with the sisters, and the still wondering David. Notwithstanding the Hurons were necessarily
ignorant of the little channels among the eddies and
rapids of the stream, they knew the common sign of
such a navigation too well, to commit any material
blunder. When the pilot chosen for the task of guiding
the canoe had taken his station, the whole band plunged again into the river, the vessel glided down the current, and in a few moments the captives found themselves on the south bank of the stream, nearly opposite to the point where they had struck it, the preceding evening.
   Here was held another short but earnest consultation, during which, the horses, to whose panic their
owners ascribed their heaviest misfortune, were led
from the cover of the woods, and brought to the sheltered spot. The band now divided. The great
chief, so often mentioned, mounting the charger of
Heyward, led the way directly across the river, followed by most of his people, and disappeared in the
woods, leaving the prisoners in charge of six savages,
at whose head was le Renard Subtil. Duncan witnessed all their movements with renewed uneasiness.
   He had been fond of believing, from the uncommon forbearance of the savages, that he was reserved
as a prisoner, to be delivered to Montcalm. As the
thoughts of those who are in misery seldom slumber,
and the invention is never more lively, than when
it is stimulated by hope, however feeble and remote


he had even imagined that the parental feelings of
Munro were to be made instrumental in seducing him
from his duty to the king. For though the French
commander bore a high character for courage and
enterprise, he was also thought to be expert in
those political practices, which do not always respect
the nicer obligations of morality, and which so generally disgraced the European diplomacy of that period.
   All those busy and ingenious speculations were
now annihilated by the conduct of his captors.
That portion of the band who had followed the huge
warrior, took the route towards the foot of Horican,
and no other expectation was left for himself and
companions, than that they were to be retained as
hopeless captives by their savage conquerors. Anxious to know the worst, and willing, in such an emergency, to try the potency of his wealth, he overcame
his reluctance to speak to Magua. Addressing himself to his former guide, who had now assumed the
authority and manner of one who was to direct the
future movements of the party, he said, in tones as
friendly and confiding as he could assume -- 
   "I would speak to Magua, what is fit only for so
great a chief to hear."
   The Indian turned his eyes on the young soldier,
scornfully, as he answered -- 
   "Speak, then; trees have no ears!"
   "But the red Hurons are not deaf; and counsel
that is fit for the great men of a nation, would make
the young warriors drunk. If Magua will not listen,
the officer of the king knows how to be silent."


    
   The savage spoke carelessly to his comrades, who
were busied, after their awkward manner, in preparing the horses for the reception of the sisters, and
moved a little to one side, whither, by a cautious gesture, he induced Heyward to follow.
   "Now speak," he said; "if the words are such as
Magua should hear."
   "Le Renard Subtil has proved himself worthy of
the honourable name given to him by his Canada fathers," commenced Heyward; "I see his wisdom,
and all that he has done for us, and shall remember
it, when the hour to reward him arrives. Yes,
yes! Renard has proved that he is not only a great
chief in council, but one who knows how to deceive
his enemies!"
   "What has Renard done?" coldly demanded the
Indian.
   "What! has he not seen that the woods were filled
with outlying parties of the enemies, and that the serpent could not steal through them without being seen?
Then, did he not lose his path, to blind the eyes of
the Hurons? Did he not pretend to go back to his
tribe, who had treated him ill, and driven him from
their wigwams, like a dog? And, when we saw what
he wished to do, did we not aid him, by making a
false face, that the Hurons might think the white man
believed that his friend was his enemy? Is not all this
true? And when le Subtil had shut the eyes and
stopped the ears of his nation by his wisdom, did
they not forget that they had once done him wrong,
and forced him to flee to the Mohawks? And did
they not leave him on the south side of the river,


with their prisoners, while they have gone foolishly
on the north? Does not Renard mean to turn like
a fox on his footsteps, and carry to the rich and gray
headed Scotchman, his daughters? Yes, yes, Magua,
I see it all, and I have already been thinking how so
much wisdom and honesty should be repaid. First,
the chief of William Henry will give as a great chief
should, for such a service. The medal of Magua
will no longer be of tin, but of beaten gold; his horn
will run over with powder; dollars will be as plenty
in his pouch, as pebbles on the shore of Horican; and
the deer will lick his hand, for they will know it to be
vain to fly from before the rifle he will carry! As for
myself, I know not how to exceed the gratitude of the
Scotchman, but I -- yes, I will -- "
   "What will the young chief, who comes from towards the sun, give?" demanded the Huron, observing that Heyward hesitated in his desire to end the
enumeration of benefits with that which might form
the climax of an Indian's wishes.
   "He will make the fire-water from the islands in
the salt lake, flow before the wigwam of Magua, swifter than yon noisy Hudson, until the heart of the Indian
shall be lighter than the feathers of the humming-bird,
and his breath sweeter than the wild honeysuckle."
   Le Renard had listened with the deepest silence,
as Heyward slowly proceeded in this subtle speech.
When the young man mentioned the artifice he supposed the Indian to have practised on his own nation,
the countenance of the listener was veiled in an expression of cautious gravity. At the allusion to the
injury which Duncan affected to believe had driven


the Huron from his native tribe, a gleam of such ungovernable ferocity flashed from the other's eyes, as induced the adventurous speaker to believe he had struck
the proper chord. And by the time he reached the
part where he so artfully blended the thirst of vengeance with the desire of gain, he had, at least, obtained a command of the deepest attention of the
savage. The question put by le Renard had been
calm, and with all the dignity of an Indian; but it was
quite apparent, by the thoughtful expression of the listener's countenance, that the answer was most cunningly devised. The Huron mused a few moments,
and then laying his hand on the rude bandages of his
wounded shoulder, he said, with some energy -- 
   "Do friends make such marks?"
   "Would `la Longue Carabine' cut one so light on
an enemy?"
   "Do the Delawares crawl upon those they love like
snakes, twisting themselves to strike?"
   "Would `le Gros Serpent' have been heard by the
ears of one he wished to be deaf?"
   "Does the white chief burn his powder in the
faces of his brothers?"
   "Does he ever miss his aim, when seriously bent
to kill?" returned Duncan, smiling with well acted
disdain.
   Another long and deliberative pause succeeded
these sententious questions and ready replies. Duncan saw that the Indian hesitated. In order to complete his victory, he was in the act of recommencing
the enumeration of the rewards, when Magua made
an expressive gesture, and said -- 


    
