
   "Enough; le Renard is a wise chief, and what he
does will be seen. Go, and keep the mouth shut.
When Magua speaks, it will be the time to answer."
   Heyward, perceiving that the eyes of his companion were warily fastened on the rest of the band,
fell back immediately, in order to avoid the appearance of any suspicious confederacy with their leader.
Magua approached the horses, and affected to be
well pleased with the diligence and ingenuity of his
comrades. He then signed to Heyward to assist the
sisters into their saddles, for he seldom deigned to use
the English tongue, unless urged by some motive of
more than usual moment.
   There was no longer any plausible pretext for further delay, and Duncan was obliged, however reluctantly, to comply. As he performed this office, he
whispered his reviving hopes in the ears of the trembling maidens, who, through dread of encountering the
savage countenances of their captors, seldom raised
their eyes from the ground. The mare of David had
been taken with the followers of the large chief; in
consequence, its owner, as well as Duncan, were
compelled to journey on foot. The latter did not, however, so much regret this circumstance, as it might
enable him to retard the speed of the party -- for he
still turned his longing looks in the direction of fort Edward, in the vain expectation of catching some sound
from that quarter of the forest, which might denote
the approach of speedy succour.
   When all were prepared, Magua made the signal
to proceed, advancing in front, to lead the party in


his own person. Next followed David, who was
gradually coming to a true sense of his condition, as
the effects of the wound became less and less apparent. The sisters rode in his rear, with Heyward at
their side, while the Indians flanked the party, and
brought up the close of the march, with a caution that
seemed never to tire.
   In this manner they proceeded in uninterrupted silence, except when Heyward addressed some solitary
word of comfort to the females, or David gave vent
to the moanings of his spirit, in piteous exclamation, which he intended should express the humility of
his resignation. Their direction lay towards the
south, and in a course nearly opposite to the road to
William Henry. Notwithstanding this apparent adherence in Magua to the original determination of his
conquerors, Heyward could not believe his tempting
bait was so soon forgotten; and he knew the windings
of an Indian path too well, to suppose that its apparent
course led directly to its object, when artifice was at
all necessary. Mile after mile was, however, passed
through the boundless woods in this painful manner,
without any prospect of a termination to their journey.
Heyward watched the sun, as he darted his meridian
rays through the branches of the trees, and pined for
the moment when the policy of Magua should change
their route to one more favourable to his hopes.
Sometimes he fancied that the wary savage, despairing of passing the beleaguering army of Montcalm, in
safety, was holding his way towards a well known
border settlement, where a distinguished officer of the
crown, and a favoured friend of the Six Nations, held


his large possessions, as well as his usual residence.
To be delivered into the hands of Sir William Johnson, was far preferable to being led into the wilds of
Canada; but in order to effect even the former, it
would be necessary to traverse the forest for many
weary leagues, each step of which was carrying him
further from the scene of the war, and, consequently,
from the post, not only of honour, but of duty.
   Cora alone remembered the parting injunctions of
the scout, and whenever an opportunity offered, she
stretched forth her arm to bend aside the twigs that
met her hands. But the vigilance of the Indians rendered this act of precaution both difficult and dangerous. She was often defeated in her purpose, by encountering the dark glances of their watchful eyes,
when it became necessary to feign an alarm she did not
feel, and occupy the limb, by some gesture of feminine
apprehension. Once, and once only, was she completely successful; when she broke down the bough of
a large sumach, and, by a sudden thought, let her glove
fall at the same instant. This sign intended for those
that might follow, was observed by one of her conductors, who restored the glove, broke the remaining
branches of the bush in such a manner, that it appeared to proceed from the struggling of some beast in
its branches, and then laid his hand on his tomahawk,
with a look so significant, that it put an effectual end
to these stolen memorials of their passage.
   As there were horses, to leave the prints of their
footsteps, in both bands of the Indians, this interruption cut off any probable hopes of assistance being
conveyed through the means of their trail.


    
   Heyward would have called out twenty times to
their leader, and ventured a remonstrance, had there
been any thing encouraging in the gloomy reserve of
the savage. But Magua, during all this time, seldom turned to look at his followers, and never spoke.
With the sun for his only guide, or aided by such blind
marks as are only known to the sagacity of a native,
he held his way along the barrens of pine, through
occasional little fertile vales, across brooks and rivulets, and over undulating hills, with the accuracy of
instinct, and nearly with the directness of a bird.
He never seemed to hesitate. Whether the path was
hardly distinguishable, whether it disappeared, or whether it lay beaten and plain before him, made no sensible difference in his speed or certainty. It seemed
as though fatigue could not affect him. Whenever
the eyes of the wearied travellers rose from the
decayed leaves over which they trode, his dark
form was to be seen glancing among the stems of the
trees in front, his head immoveably fastened in a forward position, with the light plume on its crest,
fluttering in a current of air, made solely by the
swiftness of his own motion.
   But all this diligence and speed was not without an
object. After crossing a low vale, through which a
gushing brook meandered, he suddenly rose a hill, so
steep and difficult of ascent, that the sisters were
compelled to alight, in order to follow. When the
summit was gained, they found themselves on a level
spot, but thinly covered with trees, under one of
which Magua had thrown his dark form, as if willing
and ready to seek that rest, which was so much needed by the whole party.


Chapter 11
CHAPTER XI.
      -- "Cursed be my tribe, 
If I forgive him." 
-- Shylock. 
    
   The Indian had selected for this desirable purpose, one of those steep, pyramidal hills, which bear
a strong resemblance to artificial mounds, and which
so frequently occur in the valleys of the American
states. The one in question was high, and precipitous; its top flattened, as usual; but with one of its
sides more than ordinarily irregular. It possessed no
other apparent advantages for a resting place, than
in its elevation and form, which might render defence
easy, and surprise nearly impossible. As Heyward,
however, no longer expected that rescue, which time
and distance now rendered so improbable, he regarded these little peculiarities with an eye devoid
of interest, devoting himself entirely to the comfort
and condolence of his feebler companions. The
Narragansets were suffered to browse on the branches
of the trees and shrubs, that were thinly scattered
over the summit of the hill, while the remains of
their provisions were spread under the shade of a
beech, that stretched its horizontal limbs like a vast
canopy above them.


    
   Notwithstanding the swiftness of their flight, one
of the Indians had found an opportunity to strike a
straggling fawn with an arrow, and had borne the
more preferable fragments of the victim, patiently
on his shoulders, to the stopping place. Without
any aid from the science of cookery, he was immediately employed, in common with his fellows, in
gorging himself with this digestable sustenance. Magua alone sat apart, without participation in the revolting meal, and apparently buried in the deepest
thought.
   This abstinence, so remarkable in an Indian, at
length attracted the notice of Heyward. The young
man willingly believed that the Huron deliberated on
the most eligible manner to elude the vigilance of his
associates, in order to possess himself of the promised bribe. With a view to assist his plans by any
suggestion of his own, and to strengthen the temptation, he left the beech, and straggled, as if without
an object, to the spot where le Renard was seated.
   "Has not Magua kept the sun in his face long
enough to escape all danger from the Canadians?"
he asked, as though no longer doubtful of the good
intelligence established between them; "and will
not the chief of William Henry be better pleased to
see his daughters before another night may have hardened his heart to their loss, and will make him less
liberal in his reward?"
   "Do the pale faces love their children less in the
morning than at night?" asked the Indian, coldly.
   "By no means," returned Heyward, anxious to
recall his error, if he had made one; "the white
