


man may, and does often, forget the burial place of
his fathers; he sometimes ceases to remember those
he should love, and has promised to cherish; but the
affection of a parent for his child is never permitted
to die."
   "And is the heart of the white-headed chief soft,
and will he think of the babes that his squaws have
given him? He is hard to his warriors, and his eyes
are made of stone!"
   "He is severe to the idle and wicked, but to the
sober and deserving he is a leader, both just and humane. I have known many fond and tender parents,
but never have I seen a man whose heart was softer
towards his child. You have seen the gray-head in
front of his warriors, Magua, but I have seen his eyes
swimming in water, when he spoke of those children
who are now in your power!"
   Heyward paused, for he knew not how to construe
the remarkable expression that gleamed across the
swarthy features of the attentive Indian. At first it
seemed as if the remembrance of the promised reward grew vivid in his mind, as he listened to the
sources of parental feeling which were to assure its
possession; but as Duncan proceeded, the expression
of joy became so fiercely malignant, that it was impossible not to apprehend it proceeded from some
passion even more sinister than avarice.
   "Go," said the Huron, suppressing the alarming
exhibition in an instant, in a death-like calmness of
countenance; "go to the dark-haired daughter, and
say, Magua waits to speak. The father will remember what the child promises."


    
   Duncan, who interpreted this speech to express a
wish for some additional pledge that the promised gifts
should not be withheld, slowly and reluctantly repaired to the place where the sisters were now resting from
their fatigue, to communicate its purport to Cora.
   "You understand the nature of an Indian's wishes,"
he concluded, as he led her towards the place where
she was expected, "and must be prodigal of your
offers of powder and blankets. Ardent spirits are,
however, the most prized by such as he; nor would
it be amiss to add some boon from your own hand,
with that grace you so well know how to practise.
Remember, Cora, that on your presence of mind
and ingenuity, even your life, as well as that of Alice,
may in some measure depend."
   "Heyward, and yours!"
   "Mine is of little moment; it is already sold to my
king, and is a prize to be seized by any enemy who
may possess the power. I have no father to expect
me, and but few friends to lament a fate, which I have
courted with the unsatiable longings of youth after
distinction. But, hush; we approach the Indian.
Magua, the lady, with whom you wish to speak, is
here."
   The Indian rose slowly from his seat, and stood
for near a minute silent and motionless. He then
signed with his hand for Heyward to retire, saying,
coldly -- 
   "When the Huron talks to the women, his tribe
shut their ears."
   Duncan still lingering, as if refusing to comply,
Cora said, with a calm smile -- 


    
   "You hear, Heyward, and delicacy at least should
urge you to retire. Go to Alice, and comfort her
with our reviving prospects."
   She waited until he had departed, and then turning to the native, with all the dignity of her sex, in
her voice and manner, she added: "What would le
Renard say to the daughter of Munro?"
   "Listen," said the Indian, laying his hand firmly
upon her arm, as if willing to draw her utmost attention to his words; a movement that Cora as firmly,
but quietly repulsed, by extricating the limb from his
grasp -- "Magua was born a chief and a warrior
among the red Hurons of the lakes; he saw the suns
of twenty summers make the snows of twenty winters run off in the streams, before he saw a pale-face;
and he was happy! Then his Canada fathers came
into the woods, and taught him to drink the firewater, and he became a rascal. The Hurons drove
him from the graves of his fathers, as they would chase
the hunted buffalo. He ran down the shores of the
lakes, and followed their outlet to the `city of cannon.'
There he hunted and fished, till the people chased
him again through the woods into the arms of his enemies. The chief, who was born a Huron, was at last
a warrior among the Mohawks!"
   "Something like this I had heard before," said
Cora, observing that he paused to suppress those
passions which began to burn with too bright a flame,
as he recalled the recollection of his supposed injuries.
   "Was it the fault of le Renard that his head was
not made of rock? Who gave him the fire-water?


who made him a villain? 'Twas the pale-faces, the
people of your own colour."
   "And am I answerable that thoughtless and unprincipled men exist, whose shades of countenance
may resemble mine?" Cora calmly demanded of the
excited savage.
   "No; Magua is a man, and not a fool; such as
you never open their lips to the burning stream; the
Great Spirit has given you wisdom!"
   "What then have I to do, or say, in the matter of
your misfortunes, not to say of your errors?"
   "Listen," repeated the Indian, resuming his earnest attitude; "when his English and French fathers
dug up the hatchet, le Renard struck the war-post of
the Mohawks, and went out against his own nation.
The pale-faces have driven the red-skins from their
hunting grounds, and now, when they fight, a white
man leads the way. The old chief of Horican, your
father, was the great captain of our war party. He
said to the Mohawks do this, and do that, and he was
minded. He made a law, that if an Indian swallowed
the fire-water, and came into the cloth wigwams of
his warriors, it should not be forgotten. Magua
foolishly opened his mouth, and the hot liquor led him
into the cabin of Munro. What did the gray-head?
let his daughter say."
   "He forgot not his words, and did justice, by punishing the offender," said the undaunted maiden.
   "Justice!" repeated the Indian, casting an oblique
glance of the most ferocious expression at her unyielding countenance; "is it justice to make evil,
and then punish for it! Magua was not himself; it


was the fire-water that spoke and acted for him! but
Munro did not believe it. The Huron chief was
tied up before all the pale-faced warriors, and whipped with sticks, like a dog."
   Cora remained silent, for she knew not how to
palliate this imprudent severity on the part of her
father, in a manner to suit the comprehension of an
Indian.
   "See!" continued Magua, tearing aside the slight
calico that very imperfectly concealed his painted
breast; "here are scars given by knives and bullets -- of these a warrior may boast before his nation;
but the gray-head has left marks on the back of the
Huron chief, that he must hide, like a squaw, under
this painted cloth of the whites."
   "I had thought," resumed Cora, "that an Indian
warrior was patient, and that his spirit felt not, and
knew not, the pain his body suffered?"
   "When the Chippewas tied Magua to the stake, and
cut this gash," said the other, laying his finger proudly
on a deep scar on his bosom, "the Huron laughed
in their faces, and told them, women struck so light!
His spirit was then in the clouds! But when he felt
the blows of Munro, his spirit lay under the birch.
The spirit of a Huron is never drunk; it remembers
for ever!"
   "But it may be appeased. If my father has done
you this injustice, show him how an Indian can forgive an injury, and take back his daughters. You
have heard from Major Heyward -- "
   Magua shook his head, forbidding the repetition of
offers he so much despised.
