


    
   "What would you have," continued Cora, after a
most painful pause, while the conviction forced itself
on her mind, that the too sanguine and generous Duncan had been cruelly deceived by the cunning of the
savage.
   "What a Huron loves -- good for good; bad for
bad!"
   "You would then revenge the injury inflicted by
Munro, on his helpless daughters. Would it not be
more like a man to go before his face, and take the
satisfaction of a warrior?"
   "The arms of the pale-faces are long, and their
knives sharp!" returned the savage, with a malignant
laugh; "why should le Renard go among the muskets of his warriors, when he holds the spirit of the
gray-head in his hand?"
   "Name your intention, Magua," said Cora, struggling with herself to speak with steady calmness. "Is
it to lead us prisoners to the woods, or do you contemplate even some greater evil? Is there no reward, no
means of palliating the injury, and of softening your
heart? At least, release my gentle sister, and pour
out all your malice on me. Purchase wealth by her
safety, and satisfy your revenge with a single victim.
The loss of both his daughters might bring the aged
man to his grave, and where would then be the satisfaction of le Renard?"
   "Listen," said the Indian again. "The light
eyes can go back to the Horican, and tell the old chief
what has been done, if the dark-haired woman will
swear, by the Great Spirit of her fathers, to tell no
lie."
   "What must I promise?" demanded Cora, still


maintaining a secret ascendancy over the fierce passions of the native, by the collected and feminine
dignity of her presence.
   "When Magua left his people, his wife was given
to another chief; he has now made friends with the
Hurons, and will go back to the graves of his tribe,
on the shores of the great lake. Let the daughter of
the English chief follow, and live in his wigwam for
ever."
   However revolting a proposal of such a character might prove to Cora, she retained, notwithstanding her powerful disgust, sufficient self-command
to reply, without betraying the least weakness.
   "And what pleasure would Magua find in sharing
his cabin with a wife he did not love; one who would
be of a nation and colour different from his own? It
would be better to take the gold of Munro, and
buy the heart of some Huron maid with his gifts and
generosity."
   The Indian made no reply for near a minute, but
bent his fierce looks on the countenance of Cora, in
such wavering glances, that her eyes sunk with shame,
under an impression, that, for the first time, they had
encountered an expression that no chaste female
might endure. While she was shrinking within herself, in dread of having her ears wounded by some
proposal still more shocking than the last, the voice
of Magua answered, in its tones of deepest malignancy -- 
   "When the blows scorched the back of the Huron,
he would know where to find a woman to feel the
smart. The daughter of Munro would draw his water,


hoe his corn, and cook his venison. The body of the
gray-head would sleep among his cannon, but his
heart would lie within reach of the knife of le Subtil."
   "Monster! well dost thou deserve thy treacherous
name!" cried Cora, in an ungovernable burst of
filial indignation. "None but a fiend could meditate
such a vengeance! But thou overratest thy power!
You shall find it is, in truth, the heart of Munro you
hold, and that it will defy your utmost malice!"
   The Indian answered this bold defiance by a ghastly smile, that showed an unaltered purpose, while he
motioned her away, as if to close their conference,
for ever. Cora, already regretting her precipitation,
was obliged to comply; for Magua instantly left the
spot, and approached his gluttonous comrades.
Heyward flew to the side of the agitated maiden, and
demanded the result of a dialogue, that he had
watched at a distance with so much interest. But
unwilling to alarm the fears of Alice, she evaded a
direct reply, betraying only by her countenance her
utter want of success, and keeping her anxious looks
fastened on the slightest movements of their captors.
To the reiterated and earnest questions of her sister,
concerning their probable destination, she made no
other answer, than by pointing towards the dark
groupe, with an agitation she could not control, and
murmuring, as she folded Alice to her bosom -- 
   "There, there; read our fortunes in their faces;
we shall see! we shall see!"
   The action, and the choked utterance of Cora,
spoke more impressively than any words, and quick


ly drew the attention of her companions on that spot,
where her own was riveted with an intenseness,
that nothing but the importance of the stake could
create.
   When Magua reached the cluster of lolling savages,
who, gorged with their disgusting meal, lay stretched
on the earth, in a sort of brutal indulgence, he commenced speaking with the utmost dignity of an Indian
chief. The first syllables he uttered, had the effect
to cause his listeners to raise themselves in attitudes
of respectful attention. As the Huron used his native language, the prisoners, notwithstanding the
caution of the natives had kept them within the
swing of their tomahawks, could only conjecture the
substance of his harangue, from the nature of those
significant gestures with which an Indian always illustrates his eloquence.
   At first, the language, as well as the action of Magua, appeared calm and deliberative. When he had
succeeded in sufficiently awakening the attention of his
comrades, Heyward fancied, by his pointing so frequently toward the direction of the great lakes, that he
spoke of the land of their fathers, and of their distant
tribe. Frequent indications of applause escaped the
listeners, who, as they uttered the expressive "hugh!"
looked at each other in open commendation of the
speaker. Le Renard was too skilful to neglect his
advantage. He now spoke of the long and painful
route by which they had left those spacious hunting
grounds and happy villages, to come and battle
against the enemies of their Canadian fathers. He
enumerated the warriors of the party; their several


merits; their frequent services to the nation; their
wounds, and the number of the scalps they had taken.
Whenever he alluded to any present, (and the subtle
Indian neglected none,) the dark countenance of the
flattered individual gleamed with exultation, nor did
he even hesitate to assert the truth of the words, by gestures of applause and confirmation. Then the voice
of the speaker fell, and lost the loud, animated tones
of triumph with which he had enumerated their deeds
of success and victory. He described the cataract
of Glenn's; the impregnable position of its rocky
island, with its caverns, and its numerous encircling
rapids and whirlpools; he named the name of `la
Longue Carabine,' and paused until the forest beneath
them had sent up the last echo of a loud and long
yell, with which the hated appellation was received.
He pointed toward the youthful military captive, and
described the death of a favourite warrior, who had
been precipitated into the deep ravine by his hand.
He not only mentioned the fate of him who, hanging
between heaven and earth, had presented such a
spectacle of horror to the whole band, but he acted
anew the terrors of his situation, his resolution and
his death, on the branches of a sapling; and, finally,
he rapidly recounted the manner in which each
of their friends had fallen, never failing to touch upon
their courage, and their most acknowledged virtues.
When this recital of events was ended, his voice once
more changed, and became plaintive, and even musical, in its low, soft, guttural sounds. He now spoke
of the wives and children of the slain; their destitution; their misery, both physical and moral; their


distance; and, at last, of their unavenged wrongs.
Then suddenly lifting his voice to a pitch of terrific
energy, he concluded, by demanding -- 
   "Are the Hurons dogs, to bear this? Who shall
say to the wife of Menowgua, that the fishes have his
scalp, and that his nation have not taken revenge!
Who will dare meet the mother of Wassawattimie, that
scornful woman, with his hands clean! What shall
be said to the old men, when they ask us for scalps,
and we have not a hair from a white head to give
them! The women will point their fingers at us.
There is a dark spot on the names of the Hurons, and
it must be hid in blood! -- "
   His voice was no longer audible in the burst of
rage, which now broke into the air, as if the wood, instead of containing so small a band, was filled with their
nation. During the foregoing address, the progress of
the speaker was too plainly read by those most interested in his success, through the medium of the
countenances of the men he addressed. They had
answered his melancholy and mourning, by sympathy
and sorrow; his assertions, by gestures of confirmation; and his boastings, with the exultation of savages. When he spoke of courage, their looks were
firm and responsive; when he alluded to their injuries, their eyes kindled with fury; when he mentioned the taunts of their women, they dropped
their heads in shame; but when he pointed out
their means of vengeance, he struck a chord which
never failed to thrill in the breast of an Indian.
With the first intimation that it was within their
reach, the whole band sprang upon their feet, as one

