

man, and giving utterance to their rage for a single
instant, in the most frantic cries, they rushed upon
their prisoners in a body, with drawn knives and uplifted tomahawks. Heyward threw himself between
the sisters and their enemies, the foremost of whom he
grappled with a desperate strength that for a moment
checked his violence. This unexpected resistance
gave Magua time to interpose, and with rapid enunciation and animated gestures, he drew the attention of the
band again to himself. In that language he knew so well
how to assume, he diverted his comrades from their
instant purpose, and invited them to prolong the misery of their victims. His proposal was received
with acclamations, and executed with the swiftness of
thought.
   Two powerful warriors cast themselves together
on Heyward, while another was occupied in securing the less active singing-master. Neither of the
captives, however, submitted without a desperate
though fruitless struggle. Even David hurled his assailant to the earth; nor was Heyward secured,
until the victory over his companion enabled the Indians to direct their united force to that object. He
was then bound and fastened to the body of the sapling, on whose branches Magua had acted the pantomime of the falling Huron. When the young soldier
regained his recollection, he had the painful certainty
before his eyes, that a common fate was intended for
the whole party. On his right was Cora, in a durance similar to his own, pale and agitated, but with
an eye, whose steady look still read the proceedings of
their enemies. On his left, the withes which bound


her to a pine, performed that office for Alice which
her trembling limbs refused, and alone kept her
lovely but fragile form from sinking to the ground.
Her hands were clasped before her in prayer, but
instead of looking upward to that power which alone
could rescue them, her unconscious looks wandered
to the countenance of Duncan, with a species of infantile dependency. David had contended; and the
novelty of the circumstance held him silent, in deliberation, on the propriety of the unusual occurrence.
   The vengeance of the Hurons had now taken a new
direction, and they prepared to execute it, with all
that barbarous ingenuity, with which they were familiarized by the practice of centuries. Some
sought knots, to raise the blazing pile; one was riving
the splinters of pine, in order to pierce the flesh of
their captives with the burning fragments; and others
bent the tops of two saplings to the earth, in order to
suspend Heyward by the arms between the recoiling
branches. But the vengeance of Magua sought a
deeper and a more malignant enjoyment.
   While the less refined monsters of the band prepared, before the eyes of those who were to suffer,
these well known and vulgar means of torture, he approached Cora, and pointed out, with the most malign expression of countenance, the speedy fate that
awaited her -- 
   "Ha!" he added, "what says the daughter of
Munro? Her head is too good to find a pillow in the
wigwam of le Renard; will she like it better when
it rolls about this hill, a plaything for the wolves?


Her bosom cannot nurse the children of a Huron;
she will see it spit upon by Indians!"
   "What means the monster!" demanded the astonished Heyward.
   "Nothing!" was the firm but mild reply. "He
is a savage, a barbarous and ignorant savage, and
knows not what he does. Let us find leisure, with
our dying breath, to ask for him penitence and pardon."
   "Pardon!" echoed the fierce Huron, mistaking,
in his anger, the meaning of her words; "the memory of an Indian is longer than the arm of the palefaces; his mercy shorter than their justice! Say;
shall I send the yellow-hair to her father, and will you
follow Magua to the great lakes, to carry his water,
and feed him with corn?"
   Cora beckoned him away, with an emotion of disgust she could not control.
   "Leave me," she said, with a solemnity that for
a moment checked the barbarity of the Indian; "you
mingle bitterness in my prayers, and stand between
me and my God!"
   The slight impression produced on the savage was,
however, soon forgotten, and he continued pointing,
with taunting irony, towards Alice.
   "Look! the child weeps! She is young to die!
Send her to Munro, to comb his gray hairs, and keep
the life in the heart of the old man."
   Cora could not resist the desire to look upon her
youthful sister, in whose eyes she met an imploring
glance, that betrayed the longings of nature.
   "What says he, dearest Cora?" asked the trem


bling voice of Alice. "Did he speak of sending me
to our father?"
   For many moments the elder sister looked upon
the younger, with a countenance that wavered with
powerful and contending emotions. At length she
spoke, though her tones had lost their rich and calm
fulness, in an expression of tenderness, that seemed
maternal.
   "Alice," she said, "the Huron offers us both
life -- nay, more than both; he offers to restore Duncan -- our invaluable Duncan, as well as you, to our
friends -- to our father -- to our heart-stricken, childless
father, if I will bow down this rebellious, stubborn
pride of mine, and consent -- "
   Her voice became choked, and clasping her hand,
she looked upward, as if seeking, in her agony, intelligence from a wisdom that was infinite.
   "Say on," cried Alice; "to what, dearest Cora?
Oh! that the proffer were made to me! to save you,
to cheer our aged father! to restore Duncan, how
cheerfully could I die!"
   "Die!" repeated Cora, with a calmer and a firmer voice, "that were easy! Perhaps the alternative
may not be less so. He would have me," she continued, her accents sinking under a deep consciousness of the degradation of the proposal, "follow him
to the wilderness; to go to the habitations of the
Hurons; to remain there: in short, to become his
wife! Speak then, Alice; child of my affections!
sister of my love! And you too, Major Heyward,
aid my weak reason with your counsel. Is life to be
purchased by such a sacrifice? Will you, Alice, re


ceive it at my hands, at such a price? And you, 
Duncan; guide me; control me between you; for I
am wholly yours."
   "Would I!" echoed the indignant and astonished
youth. "Cora! Cora! you jest with our misery!
Name not the horrid alternative again; the thought
itself is worse than a thousand deaths."
   "That such would be your answer, I well knew!"
exclaimed Cora, her cheeks flushing, and her dark
eyes once more sparkling with the glow of the lingering but momentary emotions of a woman. "What
says my Alice? for her will I submit without another
murmur."
   Although both Heyward and Cora listened with
painful suspense and the deepest attention, no sounds
were heard in reply. It appeared as if the delicate
and sensitive form of Alice had shrunk into itself, as
she listened to this proposal. Her arms had fallen
lengthwise before her, with the fingers moving in
slight convulsions; her head dropped upon her bosom, and her whole person seemed suspended against
the tree, looking like some beautiful emblem of the
wounded delicacy of her sex, devoid of animation, and
yet keenly conscious. In a few moments, however,
her head began to move slowly, in a sign of deep, unconquerable disapprobation, and by the time the flush
of maiden pride had diffused itself over her fine features, and her eye had lighted with the feelings which
oppressed her, she found strength to murmur -- 
   "No, no, no; better that we should die, as we have
lived, together!"
   "Then die!" shouted Magua, hurling his toma


hawk with violence at the unresisting speaker, and
gnashing his teeth with a rage that could no longer
be bridled, at this sudden exhibition of firmness in
the one he believed the weakest of the party. The axe
cleaved the air in front of Heyward, and cutting some
of the flowing ringlets of Alice, buried itself, and quivered in the tree above her head. The sight maddened Duncan to desperation. Collecting all his
energies in one effort, he snapped the twigs which
bound him, and rushed upon another savage, who
was preparing, with loud yells, and a more deliberate aim, to repeat the blow. They encountered
grappled, and fell to the earth together. The naked
body of his antagonist, afforded Heyward no means of
holding his adversary, who glided from his grasp, and
rose again with one knee on his chest, pressing him
down with the weight of a giant. Duncan already saw
the knife gleaming in the air, when a whistling sound
swept past him, and was rather accompanied, than followed, by the sharp crack of a rifle. He felt his breast
relieved from the load it had endured; he saw the savage expression of his adversary's countenance change
to a look of vacant wildness, and then the Indian fell
prostrate and dead, on the faded leaves by his side.


Chapter 12
CHAPTER XII.
