
"Clo.
    -- I am gone, sir,
And anon, sir,
   I'll be with you again."
-- 
Twelfth Night. 
    
   The Hurons stood aghast at this sudden visitation
of death on one of their band. But, as they regarded
the fatal accuracy of an aim, which had dared to immolate an enemy, at so much hazard to a friend, the
name of "la Longue Carabine" burst simultaneously
from every lip, and was succeeded by a wild and a sort
of plaintive howl. The cry was answered by a loud
shout from a little thicket, where the incautious party
had piled their arms; and, at the next moment, Hawkeye, too eager to load the rifle he had regained, was
seen advancing upon them, brandishing the clubbed
weapon, and cutting the air with wide and powerful
sweeps. Bold and rapid as was the progress of the
scout, it was exceeded by that of a light and vigorous
form, which bounding past him, leaped, with incredible activity and daring, into the very centre of the
Hurons, where it stood, whirling a tomahawk, and
flourishing a glittering knife, with fearful menaces, in
front of Cora. Quicker than the thoughts could follow these unexpected and audacious movements, an
image, armed in the emblematic panoply of death,


stole, with the imaginary glidings of a spectre, before
their eyes, and assumed a threatening attitude at the
other's side. The savage tormentors recoiled before
these warlike intruders, and uttered, as they appeared,
in such quick succession, the often repeated and peculiar exclamation of surprise, followed by the well
known and dreaded appellations of -- 
   "Le Cerf Agile! le Gros Serpent!"
   But the wary and vigilant leader of the Hurons,
was not so easily disconcerted. Casting his keen eyes
around the little plain, he comprehended the nature
of the assault, at a glance, and encouraging his followers by his voice, as well as by his example, he unsheathed his long and dangerous knife, and rushed,
with a loud whoop, upon the expecting Chingachgook. It was the signal for a general combat. Neither party had fire-arms, and the contest was to be decided in the deadliest manner; hand to hand, with
weapons of offence, and none of defence.
   Uncas answered the whoop, and leaping on an
enemy, with a single, well-directed blow of his tomahawk, cleft him to the brain. Heyward tore the
weapon of Magua from the sapling, and rushed eagerly towards the fray. As the combatants were now
equal in number, each singled an opponent from the
adverse band. The rush and blows passed with the
fury of a whirlwind, and the swiftness of lightning.
Hawk-eye soon got another enemy within reach of his
arm, and with one sweep of his formidable weapon,
he beat down the slight and inartificial defences of
his antagonist, crushing him to the earth with the
weight of his blow. Heyward ventured to hurl the


tomahawk he had seized, too ardent to await the moment of closing. It struck the Indian he had selected on the forehead, and checked for an instant his onward rush. Encouraged by this slight advantage, the
impetuous young man continued his onset, and sprang
upon his enemy with naked hands. A single instant
was sufficient to assure him of the rashness of the
measure, for he immediately found himself fully engaged, with all his activity and courage, in endeavouring to ward the desperate thrusts made with
the knife of the Huron. Unable longer to foil
an enemy so alert and vigilant, he threw his arms
about him, and succeeded in pinning the limbs of the
other to his side, with an iron grasp, but one that
was far too exhausting to himself to continue long.
In this extremity he heard a voice near him, shouting -- 
   "Extarminate the varlets! no quarter to an accursed Mingo!"
   At the next moment, the breech of Hawk-eye's
rifle fell on the naked head of his adversary, whose
muscles appeared to wither under the shock, as he
sunk from the arms of Duncan, flexible and motionless.
   When Uncas had brained his first antagonist, he
turned, like a hungry lion, to seek another. The
fifth and only Huron disengaged at the first onset, had
paused a moment, and then seeing that all around
him were employed in the deadly strife, he had
sought, with hellish vengeance, to complete the baffled work of revenge. Raising a shout of triumph,
he had sprung towards the defenceless Cora, sending


his keen axe, as the dreadful precursor of his approach,
The tomahawk grazed her shoulder, and cutting the
withes which bound her to the tree, left the maiden
at liberty to fly. She eluded the grasp of the savage,
and reckless of her own safety, threw herself on the
bosom of Alice, striving, with convulsed and ill-directed fingers, to tear asunder the twigs which confined the person of her sister. Any other than a
monster would have relented at such an act of generous devotion to the best and purest affection; but the
breast of the Huron was a stranger to any sympathy
in the moments of his fury. Seizing Cora by the rich
tresses which fell in glossy confusion about her form,
he tore her from her frantic hold, and bowed her
down with brutal violence to her knees. The savage
drew the flowing curls through his hand, and raising
them on high with an outstretched arm, he passed
the knife around the exquisitely moulded head of his
victim, with a taunting and exulting laugh. But
he purchased this moment of fierce gratification,
with the loss of the fatal opportunity. It was just
then the sight caught the eye of Uncas. Bounding
from his footsteps, he appeared for an instant darting through the air, and descending in a ball he fell
on the chest of his enemy, driving him for many
yards from the spot, headlong and prostrate. The
violence of the exertion cast the young Mohican at
his side. They arose together, fought, and bled, each
in his turn. But the conflict was soon decided; the
tomahawk of Heyward, and the rifle of Hawk-eye,
descending on the skull of the Huron, at the same
moment that the knife of Uncas reached his heart.


    
   The battle was now entirely terminated, with the
exception of the protracted struggle between "le
Renard Subtil" and "le Gros Serpent." Well did
these barbarous warriors prove that they deserved
those significant names, which had been bestowed for
deeds in former wars. When they engaged, some
little time was lost in eluding the quick and vigorous thrusts which had been aimed at their several
lives. Suddenly darting on each other, they closed,
and came to the earth, twisted together, like twining
serpents, in pliant and subtle folds. At the moment
when the victors found themselves unoccupied, the
spot where these experienced and desperate combatants lay, could only be distinguished by a cloud of
dust and leaves, which moved from the centre of the
little plain towards its boundary, as if raised by the
passage of a whirlwind. Urged by the different motives of filial affection, friendship, and gratitude,
Heyward and his companions rushed with one accord
to the place, encircling the little canopy which hung
above the warriors. In vain did Uncas dart around
the cloud, with a wish to strike his knife into the heart
of his father's foe; the threatening rifle of Hawk-eye
was raised and suspended in vain; while Duncan
endeavoured to seize the limbs of the Huron, with
hands that appeared to have lost their power. Covered, as they were, with dust and blood, the swift
and subtle evolutions of the combatants seemed to
incorporate their bodies into one. The death-like
looking figure of the Mohican, and the dark form of
the Huron, gleamed before their eyes in such quick
and confused succession, that the friends of the former


knew not where nor when to plant their succouring
blows. It is true, there were short and fleeting moments, when the fiery eyes of Magua were seen glittering, like the fabled organs of the basilisk, through
the dusty wreath by which he was enveloped, and he
read by those short and deadly glances, the fate of the
combat in the hated countenances and in the presence
of his enemies; ere, however, any hostile hand
could descend on his devoted head, its place was
filled by the scowling visage of Chingachgook. In
this manner, the scene of the combat was removed
from the centre of the little plain to its verge. The
Mohican now found an opportunity to make a powerful thrust with his knife; Magua suddenly relinquished
his grasp, and fell backward, without motion, and,
seemingly, without life. His adversary leaped on
his feet, making the arches of the forest ring with the
sounds of his shout of triumph.
   "Well done for the Delawares! victory to the
Mohican!" cried Hawk-eye, once more elevating
the butt of the long and fatal rifle; "a finishing blow
from a man without a cross, will never tell against his
honour, nor rob him of his right to the scalp!"
   But, at the very moment when the dangerous weapon was in the act of descending, the subtle Huron
rolled swiftly from beneath the danger, over the edge
of the precipice, and falling on his feet, was seen
leaping, with a single bound, into the centre of a
thicket of low bushes, which clung along its sides.
The Delawares, who had believed their enemy dead,
uttered their exclamation of surprise, and were following with speed and clamour, like hounds in open view

