

of the deer, when a shrill and peculiar cry from the
scout, instantly changed their purpose, and recalled
them to the summit of the hill.
   "'Twas like himself!" cried the inveterate forester, whose prejudices contributed so largely to veil
his natural sense of justice in all matters which concerned the Mingoes; "a lying and deceitful varlet
as he is! An honest Delaware now, being fairly vanquished, would have laid still, and been knocked on
the head, but these knavish Maquas cling to life like
so many cats-o'-the-mountain. Let him go -- let him
go; 'tis but one man, and he without either rifle or
bow, many a long mile from his French commerades;
and, like a rattler that has lost his fangs, he can do
no farther mischief, until such time as he, and we
too, may leave the prints of our moccasins over a
long reach of sandy plain. See, Uncas," he added,
in Delaware, "your father is flying the scalps already! It may be well to go round and feel the
vagabonds that are left, or we may have another of
them loping through the woods, and screeching like
any jay that has been winged!"
   So saying, the honest, but implacable scout, made
the circuit of the dead, into whose senseless bosoms
he thrust his long knife, with as much coolness, as
though they had been so many brute carcasses. He
had, however, been anticipated by the elder Mohican, who had already torn the emblems of victory
from the unresisting heads of the slain.
   But Uncas, denying his habits, we had almost said
his nature, flew with instinctive delicacy, accomnied by Heyward to the assistance of the sisters, and


quickly releasing Alice, placed her in the open
arms of Cora. We shall not attempt to describe the
gratitude to the Almighty Disposer of events which
glowed in the bosoms of the lovely maidens, who were
thus unexpectedly restored to life, and to each other.
Their thanksgivings were deep and silent; the offerings of their gentle spirits, burning brightest and purest on the secret altars of their hearts; and their renovated and more earthly feelings exhibiting themselves
in long and fervent, though speechless caresses. As
Alice arose from her knees, where she had sunken, by
the side of Cora, she threw herself on the bosom of
her sister, and sobbed aloud the name of their aged
father, while her soft, dove-like eyes, sparkled with
the rays of revived hope, the intelligence with which
they beamed partaking more of the ethereal than of
any expression which might belong to human infirmity.
   "We are saved! we are saved!" she murmured;
"to return to the arms of our dear, dear father, and
his heart will not be broken with grief! And you
too, Cora, my sister; my more than sister, my
mother; you too are spared! and Duncan," she
added, looking round upon the youth, with a smile of
ineffable purity and innocence, "even our own brave
and noble Duncan has escaped without a hurt!"
   To these ardent and nearly incoherent words,
Cora made no other answer than by straining the
youthful speaker to her heart, as she bent over her,
in melting tenderness. The manhood of Heyward
felt no shame, in dropping tears over this spectacle
of affectionate rapture; and Uncas stood, fresh and


blood-stained from the combat, a calm, and, apparently, an unmoved looker-on, it is true, but with
eyes that had already lost their fierceness, and were
beaming with a sympathy, that elevated him far above
the intelligence, and advanced him probably centuries before the practices of his nation.
   During this display of emotions so natural in their
situation, Hawk-eye, whose vigilant distrust had satisfied itself that the Hurons, who disfigured the heavenly
scene, no longer possessed the power to interrupt its
harmony, approached David, and liberated him from
the bonds he had, until that moment, endured with
the most exemplary patience.
   "There," exclaimed the scout, casting the last
withe behind him, "you are once more master of
your own limbs, though you seem not to use them with
much greater judgment than that, in which they were
first fashioned. If advice from one who is not older
than yourself, but who, having lived most of his time
in the wilderness, may be said to have experience beyond his years, will give no offence, you are welcome
to my thoughts; and these are, to part with the little
tooting instrument in your jacket to the first fool you
meet with, and buy some useful we'pon with the
money, if it be only the barrel of a horseman's pistol. By industry and care, you might thus come to
some prefarment; for by this time, I should think,
your eyes would plainly tell you, that a carrion crow
is a better bird than a mocking thresher. The one
will, at least, remove foul sights from before the face
of man, while the other is only good to brew disturb


ances in the woods, by cheating the ears of all that
hear them."
   "Arms and the clarion for the battle, but the song
of thanksgiving to the victory!" answered the liberated David. "Friend," he added, thrusting forth his
lean, delicate hand, toward Hawk-eye, in kindness,
while his eyes twinkled and grew moist, "I thank thee
that the hairs of my head still grow where they were
first rooted by Providence; for, though those of other
men may be more glossy and curling, I have ever found
mine own comfortable, and well suited to the brain
they shelter. That I did not join myself to the battle, was less owing to disinclination, than to the bonds
of the heathen. Valiant and skilful hast thou proved
thyself in the conflict, and I hereby thank thee, before
proceeding to discharge other and more important
duties, because thou hast proved thyself well worthy
of a Christian's praise!"
   "The thing is but a trifle, and what you may often
see, if you tarry long among us," returned the scout, a
good deal softened in his feelings toward the man of
song, by this unequivocal expression of his gratitude.
"I have got back my old companion, `kill-deer,' "
he added, striking his hand on the breech of his rifle,
"and that in itself is a victory. These Iroquois are
cunning, but they outwitted themselves when they
placed all their fire-arms out of reach; and had Uncas, or his father, been gifted with only their common
Indian patience, we should have come in upon the
knaves with three bullets instead of one, and that
would have made a finish of the whole pack; you lope


ing varlet, as well as his commerades. But 'twas all
fore-ordered, and for the best!"
   "Thou sayest well," returned David, "and hast
caught the true spirit of christianity. He that is to
be saved will be saved, and he that is predestined to
be damned will be damned! This is the doctrine of
truth, and most consoling and refreshing it is to the
true believer."
   The scout, who by this time was seated, examining into the state of his rifle with a species of parental assiduity, now looked up at the other in a displeasure that he did not affect to conceal, roughly interrupting his further speech.
   "Doctrine, or no doctrine," said the sturdy woodsman, " 'tis the belief of knaves, and the curse of an
honest man! I can credit that yonder Huron was
to fall by my hand, for with my own eyes have I seen
it; but nothing short of being a witness, will cause
me to think he has met with any reward, or that Chingachgook, there, will be condemned at the final day."
   "You have no warranty for such an audacious
doctrine, nor any covenant to support it," cried the
excited David, who was deeply tinctured with the
subtle distinctions, which, in his time, and more especially in his province, had been drawn around the
beautiful simplicity of revelation, by endeavouring to
penetrate the awful mystery of the divine nature,
supplying faith by self-sufficiency, and by consequence, involving those who reasoned from such human
dogmas in absurdities and doubt; "your temple is reared on the sands, and the first tempest will wash away
its foundation. I demand your authorities for such an


uncharitable assertion; (like other advocates of a system, David was not always accurate in his use of
terms.) Name chapter and verse; in which of the
holy books do you find language to support you?"
   "Book!" repeated Hawk-eye, with singular and
ill-concealed disdain; "do you take me for a whimpering boy, at the apron string of one of your old
gals; and this good rifle on my knee for the feather of
a goose's wing, my ox's horn for a bottle of ink, and
my leathern pouch for a cross-barred handkercher of
yesterday's dinner! Book! what have such as I,
who am a warrior of the wilderness, though a man
without a cross, to do with books! I never read but
in one, and the words that are written there are too
simple and too plain to need much schooling; though
I may boast that of forty long and hard working
years."
   "What call you the volume?" said David, misconceiving the other's meaning.
   " 'Tis open before your eyes," returned the scout;
"and he who owns it is not a niggard of its use. I have
heard it said, that there are men who read in books,
to convince themselves there is a God! I know
not but man may so deform his works in the settlements, as to leave that which is so clear in the wilderness, a matter of doubt among traders and priests.
If any such there be, and he will follow me from sun
to sun, through the windings of the forest, he shall
see enough to teach him that he is a fool, and that
the greatest of his folly lies in striving to rise to the
level of one he can never equal, be it in goodness, or
be it in power."


    
   The instant David discovered that he battled with
a disputant who imbibed his faith from the lights of
nature, eschewing all subtleties of doctrine, he willingly abandoned a controversy, from which he believed neither profit nor credit were to be derived.
While the scout was speaking, he had also seated himself, and producing the ready little volume, and the
iron-rimmed spectacles, he prepared to discharge a
duty, which nothing but the unexpected assault he had
received in his orthodoxy, could have so long suspended. He was, in truth, a minstrel of the western continent, of a much later day, certainly, than those gifted
bards, who formerly sung the profane renown of baron
and prince, but after the spirit of his own age and country; and he was now prepared to exercise the cunning
of his craft, in celebration of, or rather in thanksgiving
for, the recent victory. He waited patiently for Hawkeye to cease, then lifting his eyes, together with his
voice, he said, aloud -- 
