
   During this eulogium on the rare production of
his native poets, the stranger had drawn the book
from his pocket, and fitting a pair of iron-rimmed
spectacles to his nose, had opened the volume with a
care and veneration suited to its sacred purposes.
Then, without circumlocution or apology, first pronouncing the magical word, "Standish," and placing
the unknown engine, already described, to his mouth,
from which he drew a high, shrill sound, that was followed by an octave below, from his own voice, he
commenced singing the following words, in full, sweet,
and melodious tones, that set the music, the poetry,
and even the uneasy motion of his ill-trained beast, at
defiance:
"How good it is, O see, 
     And how it pleaseth well, 
Together, e'en in unity, 
     For brethren so to dwell. 
It's like the choice ointment, 
     From head to th' beard did go: 
Down Aaron's beard, that downward went, 
     His garment's skirts unto." 
   The delivery of these skilful rhymes was accompanied, on the part of the stranger, by a regular rise and
fall of his right hand, which terminated at the descent, by suffering the fingers to dwell a moment on
the leaves of the little volume; and on the ascent, by
such a flourish of the member, as none but the initiated may ever hope to imitate. It would seem, that
long practice had rendered this manual accompaniment necessary; for it did not cease, until the significant preposition which the poet had so judiciously


selected for the close of his verse, had been duly delivered in the fullest dignity of a word of two syllables.
   Such an innovation on the silence and retirement
of the forest, could not fail to enlist the ears of those
who journeyed at so short a distance in advance.
The Indian muttered a few words in broken English,
to Heyward, who, in his turn, spoke to the stranger;
at once interrupting, and, for the time, closing his musical efforts.
   "Though we are not in danger, common prudence
would teach us to journey through this wilderness in
as quiet a manner as is convenient. You will, then,
pardon me, Alice, should I diminish your enjoyments
for a time, by requesting this gentleman to postpone
his chant until a safer opportunity."
   "You will diminish them, indeed," returned the
arch maiden, "for never did I hear a more unworthy
conjunction of execution and language, than that to
which I have been listening; and I was far gone in
a learned inquiry into the causes of such an unfitness between sound and sense, when you broke the
charm of my musings by that bass of yours, Duncan!"
   "I know not what you call my bass," said Heyward, evidently piqued at her remark, "but I know
that your safety, and that of Cora, is far dearer to me
than could be any orchestra of Handel's music." He
paused, and turned his head quickly towards a thicket,
and then bent his eyes suspiciously on their guide,
who continued his steady pace in undisturbed gravity.
The young man smiled contemptuously to himself, as
he believed he had mistaken some shining herry of the


woods, for the glistening eye-balls of a prowling savage, and he rode forward, continuing the conversation which had been thus interrupted by the passing
thought.
   Major Heyward was mistaken only in suffering his
youthful and generous pride to suppress for a single
moment his active watchfulness. The cavalcade had
not long passed, before the branches of the bushes that
formed the thicket, were cautiously moved asunder,
and a human visage, as fiercely wild as savage art and
unbridled passions could make it, peered out on the
retiring footsteps of the travellers. A gleam of exultation shot across the darkly painted lineaments of
the inhabitant of the forest, as he traced the route of
his intended victims, who rode unconsciously onward;
the light and graceful forms of the females waving
among the trees, in the curvatures of their path, followed at each bend by the manly figure of Heyward;
until, finally, the shapeless person of the singing master was concealed behind the numberless trunks of
trees, that rose in dark lines in the intermediate
space.


Chapter 3
CHAPTER III.
Before these fields were shorn and tilled; 
     Full to the brim our rivers flowed; 
The melody of waters filled 
     The fresh and boundless wood; 
And torrents dashed, and rivulets played, 
And fountains spouted in the shade. 
Bryant. 
    
   Leaving the unsuspecting Heyward, and his confiding companions, to penetrate still deeper into a forest
that contained such treacherous inmates, we must use
an author's privilege, and shift the scene a few miles
to the westward of the place where we have last seen
them.
   On that day, two men might be observed, lingering on the banks of a small but rapid stream, within
an hour's journey of the encampment of Webb, like
those who awaited the appearance of an absent person, or the approach of some expected event. The
vast canopy of woods spread itself to the margin of
the river, overhanging the water, and shadowing its
dark glassy current with a deeper hue. The rays of
the sun were beginning to grow less fierce, and the
intense heat of the day was lessened, as the cooler
vapours of the springs and fountains rose above their
leafy beds, and rested in the atmosphere. Still that
breathing silence, which marks the drowsy sultriness
of an American landscape in July, pervaded the se


cluded spot, interrupted, only, by the low voices of
the men in question, an occasional and lazy tap of a
reviving wood-pecker, the discordant cry of some
gaudy jay, or a swelling on the ear, from the dull
roar of a distant water-fall.
   These feeble and broken sounds were, however,
too familiar to the foresters, to draw their attention
from the more interesting matter of their dialogue.
While one of these loiterers showed the red skin and
wild accoutrements of a native of the woods, the
other exhibited, through the mask of his rude and
nearly savage equipments, the brighter, though sunburnt and long-faded complexion of one who might
claim descent from an European parentage. The
former was seated on the end of a mossy log, in a posture that permitted him to heighten the effect of his
earnest language, by the calm but expressive gestures
of an Indian, engaged in debate. His body, which
was nearly naked, presented a terrific emblem of
death, drawn in intermingled colours of white and
black. His closely shaved head, on which no other
hair than the well known and chivalrous scalping tuft
was preserved, was without ornament of any kind,
with the exception of a solitary Eagle's plume, that
crossed his crown, and depended over the left shoulder. A tomahawk and scalping-knife, of English manufacture, were in his girdle; while a short military
rifle, of that sort with which the policy of the
whites armed their savage allies, lay carelessly
across his bare and sinewy knee. The expanded
chest, full-formed limbs, and grave countenance of
this warrior, would denote that he had reached the


vigour of his days, though no symptoms of decay appeared to have yet weakened his manhood.
   The frame of the white man, judging by such parts
as were not concealed by his clothes, was like that of
one who had known hardships and exertion from his
earliest youth. His person, though muscular, was
rather attenuated than full; but every nerve and
muscle appeared strung and indurated, by unremitted
exposure and toil. He wore a hunting-shirt of forestgreen, fringed with faded yellow, and a summer cap,
of skins which had been shorn of their fur. He also bore a knife in a girdle of wampum, like that
which confined the scanty garments of the Indian, but
no tomahawk. His moccasins were ornamented after
the gay fashion of the natives, while the only part of
his under dress which appeared below the huntingfrock, was a pair of buckskin leggings, that laced at
the sides, and were gartered above the knees, with
the sinews of a deer. A pouch and horn completed
his personal accoutrements, though a rifle of a great
length, which the theory of the more ingenious
whites had taught them, was the most dangerous of
all fire-arms, leaned against a neighbouring sapling.
The eye of the hunter, or scout, whichever he might
be, was small, quick, keen, and restless, roving while
he spoke, on every side of him, as if in quest of game,
or distrusting the sudden approach of some lurking
enemy. Notwithstanding these symptoms of habitual
suspicion, his countenance was not only without guile,
but at the moment at which he is introduced was
charged with an expression of sturdy honesty.
   "Even your traditions make the case in my fa
