
   "I invite you, friends, to join in praise for this signal deliverance from the hands of barbarians and infidels, to the comfortable and solemn tones of the
tune, called `Northampton.' "
   He next named the page and verse where the gifted rhymes he had selected were to be found, and
applied the pitch-pipe to his lips, with the customary and decent gravity, that he had been wont to
use in the temple. This time he was, however,
without any accompaniment, for the sisters were just
then pouring out those tender effusions of affection,
which have been already alluded to. Nothing de


terred by the smallness of his audience, which, in truth,
consisted only of the discontented scout, he raised his
voice, commencing and ending the sacred song, without accident or interruption of any kind.
   Hawk-eye listened, while he coolly adjusted his flint
and reloaded his rifle, but the sounds wanting the extraneous assistance of scene and sympathy, failed to
awaken his slumbering emotions. Never minstrel, or
by whatever more suitable name David should be
known, drew upon his talents in the presence of
more insensible auditors; though considering the singleness and sincerity of his motive, it is probable that
no bard of profane song ever uttered notes that ascended so near to that throne, where all homage and
praise is most due. The scout soon shook his head,
and muttering some unintelligible words, among
which "Throat" and "Iroquois," were alone audible, he walked away, to collect and to examine into the
state of the captured arsenal of the Hurons. In this
office he was now joined by Chingachgook, who found
his own, as well as the rifle of his son, among the arms.
Even Heyward and David were furnished with weapons, nor was ammunition wanting to render them
all effectual.
   When the foresters had made their selection, and
distributed their prizes, the scout announced, openly,
that the hour had arrived when it was necessary to
move. By this time the song of Gamut had ceased,
and the sisters had learned to still the exhibition of
their emotions. Aided by Duncan and the younger
Mohican, the two latter descended the precipitous
sides of that hill which they had so lately ascended,


under such very different auspices, and whose summit had so nearly proved the scene of their horrible
massacre. At the foot, they found their Narragansets browsing the herbage of the bushes, and having
mounted, they followed the movements of a guide,
who, in the most deadly straits, had so often proved
himself their friend. Their journey was, however,
short. Hawk-eye, leaving the blind path that the
Hurons had followed, turned short to his right, and
entering the thicket, he crossed a babbling brook,
and halted in a narrow dell, under the shade of a few
water elms. Their distance from the base of the fatal
hill was but a few rods, and the steeds had been serviceable to the maidens only in crossing the shallow
stream.
   The scout and the Indians appeared to be familiar
with the sequestered place where they now were;
for, leaning their rifles against the trees, they commenced throwing aside the dried leaves, and opening the blue clay, out of which a clear and sparkling
spring of bright, glancing water, quickly bubbled.
The white man then looked about him, as though
seeking for some object, which was not to be found
as readily as he expected -- 
   "Them careless imps, the Mohawks, with their
Tuscarora and Onondaga brethren, have been here
slaking their thirst," he muttered, "and the vagabonds have thrown away the gourd! This is the
way with benefits, when they are bestowed on such
disremembering hounds! Here has the Lord laid his
hand, in the midst of the howling wilderness, for their
good, and raised a fountain of water from the bowels


of the 'arth, that might laugh at the richest shop of
apothecary's ware in all the colonies; and see! the
knaves have trodden in the clay, and deformed the
cleanliness of the place, as though they were brute
beasts, instead of human men!"
   Uncas silently extended towards him the desired
gourd, which the spleen of Hawk-eye had hitherto
prevented him from observing, suspended, with sufficient care, on a branch of an elm. Filling it with
water, he retired a short distance, to a place where
the ground was more firm and dry; here he coolly
seated himself, and after taking a long, and, apparently, a grateful draught, he commenced a very
strict examination of the fragments of food left by the
Hurons, which had hung in a wallet on his arm.
   "Thank you, lad," he continued, returning the
empty gourd to Uncas; "now we will see how
these rampaging Hurons lived, when outlying in
ambushments. Look at this! The varlets know
the better pieces of the deer, and one would think
they might carve and roast a saddle, equal to the best
cook in the land! But every thing is raw, for them
Iroquois are thorough savages. Uncas, take my
steel, and kindle a fire; a mouthful of a tender broil
will give natur a helping hand, after so long a trail."
   Heyward, perceiving that their guides now set
about their repast in sober earnest, assisted the
maidens to alight, and placed himself at their side, not
unwilling to enjoy a few moments of grateful rest, after the bloody scene he had just gone through. While
the culinary process was in hand, curiosity induced him


to inquire into the circumstances which had led to
their timely and unexpected rescue -- 
   "How is it that we see you so soon, my generous
friend," he asked, "and without aid from the garrison of Edward?"
   "Had we gone to the bend in the river, we might
have been in time to rake the leaves over your
bodies, but too late to have saved your scalps,"
coolly answered the scout. "No, no; instead of
throwing away strength and opportunity by crossing
to the fort, we lay by, under the bank of the Hudson,
waiting to watch the movements of the Hurons."
   "You then were witnesses of all that passed!"
   "Not of all; for Indian sight is too keen to be
easily cheated, and we kept close. A difficult matter it was, too, to keep this Mohican boy snug in the
ambushment! Ah! Uncas, Uncas, your behaviour
was more like that of a curious woman, than of a
warrior on his scent!"
   Uncas permitted his penetrating eyes to turn for
an instant on the sturdy countenance of the speaker,
but he neither spoke, nor gave any indication of
repentance for his error. On the contrary, Heyward thought the manner of the young Mohican was
disdainful, if not a little fierce, and that he suppressed
passions that were ready to explode, as much in compliment to the listeners, as from the deference he
usually paid to his white associate.
   "You saw our capture?" Heyward next demanded.
   "We heard it," was the significant answer. "An
Indian yell is plain language to men who have passed


their days in the woods. But when you landed, we
were driven to crawl, like sarpents, beneath the leaves;
and then we lost sight of you entirely, until we placed
eyes on you again trussed to the trees, and ready
bound for an Indian massacre."
   "Our rescue was the deed of Providence! It was
nearly a miracle that you took not the wrong path, for
the Hurons divided, and each band of them had its
horses!"
   "Ay! there we were thrown off the scent, and
might, indeed, have lost the trail, had it not been for
Uncas," returned the scout, with the tone and manner of a man who recalled all the embarrassment of the
past moment; "we took the path, however, that
led into the wilderness; for we judged, and judged
rightly, that the savages would hold that course with
their prisoners. But when we had followed it for
many miles, without finding a single twig broken, as
I had advised, my mind misgave me; especially as all
the footsteps had the prints of moccasins."
   "Our captors had the precaution to see us shod
like themselves," said Duncan, raising a foot, and
exhibiting the gayly ornamented buskin he wore.
   "Ay! 'twas judgmatical, and like themselves;
though we were too expart to be thrown from a trail
by so common an invention."
   "To what then are we indebted for our safety?"
   "To what, as a white man who has no taint of Indian blood, I should be ashamed to own; to the judgment of the young Mohican, in matters which I
should know better than he, but which I can now


hardly believe to be true, though my own eyes tell
me it is so."
