
   "'Tis extraordinary! will you not name the reason?"
   "Uncas was bold enough to say, that the beasts
ridden by the gentle ones," continued Hawk-eye,
glancing his eyes, not without curious interest on the
sorrel fillies of the ladies, "planted the legs of one side
on the ground at the same time, which is contrary to
the movements of all trotting four-footed animals of
my knowledge, except the bear! And yet here are
horses that always journey in this manner, as my
own eyes have seen, and as their trail has shown for
twenty long miles!"
   "'Tis the merit of the animal! They come from
the shores of Narraganset Bay, in the small province
of Providence Plantations, and are celebrated for
their hardihood, and the ease of this peculiar movement; though other horses are not unfrequently trained to the same."
   "It may be -- it may be," said Hawk-eye, who
had listened with singular attention to this explanation;
"though I am a man who has the full blood of the
whites, my judgment in deer and beaver is greater
than in beasts of burthen. Major Effingham has many
noble chargers, but I have never seen one travel after
such a sideling gait!"
   "True, for he would value the animals for very
different properties. Still, is this a breed highly esteemed, and as you witness, much honoured with the
burthens it is often destined to bear."
   The Mohicans had suspended their operations


about the glimmering fire, to listen, and when Duncan had done, they looked at each other significantly,
the father uttering the never-failing exclamation of
surprise. The scout ruminated, like a man digesting
his newly acquired knowledge, and once more stole
a curious glance at the horses, before he continued -- 
   "I dare to say there are even stranger sights to be
seen in the settlements!" he said, at length; "natur
is sadly abused by man, when he once gets the mastery. But, go sideling, or go straight, Uncas had
seen the movement, and their trail led us on to the
broken bush. The outer branch, near the prints of
one of the horses, was bent upward, as a lady breaks
a flower from its stem, but all the rest were ragged and
broken down, as if the strong hand of a man had been
tearing them! So I concluded, that the cunning varments had seen the twig bent, and had torn the rest, to
make us believe a buck had been feeling the boughs
with his antlers."
   "I do believe your sagacity did not deceive you;
for some such thing occurred!"
   "That was easy to see," added the scout, in no
degree conscious of having exhibited any extraordinary sagacity; "and a very different matter it was
from a waddling horse! It then struck me the Mingoes
would push for this spring, for the knaves well know
the vartue of its waters!"
   "Is it, then, so famous?" demanded Heyward,
examining, with a more curious eye, the secluded
dell, with its bubbling fountain, surrounded, as it was,
by earth of a deep dingy brown.
   "Few red-skins, who travel south and east of the


great lakes, but have heard of its qualities. Will you
taste for yourself?"
   Heyward took the gourd, and after swallowing a
little of the water, threw it aside with violent grimaces of discontent. The scout laughed in his
silent, but heartfelt manner, and shook his head with
vast satisfaction, as he continued -- 
   "Ah! you want the flavour that one gets by habit;
the time was when I liked it as little as yourself; but I
have come to my taste, and I now crave it, as a deer
does the licks. Your high spiced wines are not better liked than a red-skin relishes this water; especially when his natur is ailing. But Uncas has made
his fire, and it is time we think of eating, for our journey is long, and all before us."
   Interrupting the dialogue by this abrupt transition,
the scout had instant recourse to the fragments of
food, which had escaped the voracity of the Hurons.
A very summary process completed the simple cookery, when he and the Mohicans commenced their
humble meal, with the silence and characteristic
diligence of men, who ate in order to enable themselves to endure great and unremitting toil.
   When this necessary, and, happily, grateful duty
had been performed, each of the foresters stooped
and took a long and parting draught, at that solitary
and silent spring, around which and its sister fountains, within fifty years, the wealth, beauty, and talents,
of a hemisphere, were to assemble in such throngs,
in pursuit of health and pleasure. Then Hawk-eye
announced his determination to proceed. The sisters resumed their saddles; Duncan and David


grasped their rifles, and followed on their footsteps;
the scout leading the advance, and the Mohicans
bringing up the rear. The whole party moved
swiftly through the narrow path, towards the north,
leaving the healing waters to mingle unheeded with
the adjacent brook, and the bodies of the dead to fester on the neighbouring mount, without the rites of
sepulture; a fate but too common to the warriors of the
woods, to excite either commiseration or comment.


Chapter 13
CHAPTER XIII.
   "I'll seek a readier path."
-- 
Parnell. 
    
   The route taken by Hawk-eye lay across those
sandy plains, relieved by occasional valleys and
swells of land, which had been traversed by their party on the morning of the same day, with the baffled
Magua for their guide. The sun had now fallen
low towards the distant mountains, and as their journey lay through the interminable forest, the heat was
no longer oppressive. Their progress, in consequence, was proportionate, and long before the twilight gathered about them, they had made good many
toilsome miles, on their return path.
   The hunter, like the savage whose place he filled,
seemed to select among the blind signs of their wild
route with a species of instinct, seldom abating in his
speed, and never pausing to deliberate. A rapid
and oblique glance at the moss on the trees, with an
occasional upward gaze towards the setting sun, or a
steady but passing look at the direction of the numerous water courses, through which he waded,
were sufficient to determine his path, and remove
his greatest difficulties. In the mean time, the forest


began to change its hues, losing that lively green
which had embellished its arches, in the graver light,
which is the usual precursor of the close of day.
   While the eyes of the sisters were endeavouring to
catch glimpses, through the trees, of the flood of
golden glory, which formed a glittering halo around
the sun, tinging here and there, with ruby streaks,
or bordering with narrow edgings of shining yellow,
a mass of clouds that lay piled at no great distance
above the western hills, Hawk-eye turned suddenly,
and pointing upward towards the gorgeous heavens,
he spoke.
   "Yonder is the signal given to man to seek his
food and natural rest," he said; "better and wiser
would it be, if he could understand the signs of
nature, and take a lesson from the fowls of the air,
and the beasts of the fields! Our night, however,
will soon be over, for, with the moon, we must be
up and moving again. I remember to have fout
the Maquas hereaways, in the first war in which I
ever drew blood from man; and we threw up a work
of blocks, to keep the ravenous varments from handling our scalps. If my marks do not fail me, we
shall find the place a few rods further to our left."
   Without waiting for an assent, or, indeed, for any
reply, the sturdy hunter moved boldly into a dense
thicket of young chestnuts, shoving aside the branches
of the exuberant shoots which nearly covered the
ground, like a man who expected, at each step, to
discover some object he had formerly known. The
recollection of the scout did not deceive him. After
penetrating through the brush, matted as it was
