


with briars, for a few hundred feet, he entered into
an open space, that surrounded a low, green hillock,
which was crowned by the decayed block-house in
question. This rude and neglected building was
one of those deserted works, which, having been
thrown up on an emergency, had been abandoned
with the disappearance of danger, and was now
quietly crumbling in the solitude of the forest, neglected, and nearly forgotten, like the circumstances which had caused it to be reared. Such
memorials of the passage and struggles of man are
yet frequent throughout the broad barrier of wilderness, which once separated the hostile provinces,
and form a species of ruins, that are intimately associated with the recollections of colonial history, and
which are in appropriate keeping with the gloomy
character of the surrounding scenery. The roof
of bark had long since fallen and mingled with
the soil, but the huge logs of pine, which had been
hastily thrown together, still preserved their relative
positions, though one angle of the work had given
way under the pressure, and threatened a speedy
downfall to the remainder of the rustic edifice.
While Heyward and his companions hesitated to approach a building of such a decayed appearance,
Hawk-eye and the Indians entered within the low
walls, not only without fear, but with obvious interest. While the former surveyed the ruins, both internally and externally, with the curiosity of one
whose recollections were reviving at each moment,
Chingachgook related to his son, in the language of
the Delawares, and with the pride of a conqueror,


the brief history of the skirmish which had been
fought in his youth, in that secluded spot. A strain
of melancholy, however, blended with his triumph,
rendering his voice, as usual, soft and musical.
   In the mean time, the sisters gladly dismounted,
and prepared to enjoy their halt in the coolness of
the evening, and in a security which they believed
nothing but the beasts of the forest could invade.
   "Would not our resting-place have been more retired, my worthy friend," demanded the more vigilant Duncan, perceiving that the scout had already
finished his short survey, "had we chosen a spot less
known, and one more rarely visited than this?"
   "Few live who know the block-house was ever
raised," was the slow and musing answer; " 'tis not
often that books are made, and narratives written, of
such a skrimmage as was here fout atween the
Mohicans and the Mohawks, in a war of their own
waging. I was then a younker, and went out with
the Delawares, because I know'd they were a scandalized and wronged race. Forty days and forty
nights did the imps crave our blood around this pile
of logs, which I designed and partly reared, being, as
you'll remember, no Indian myself, but a man without a cross. The Delawares lent themselves to the
work, and we made it good, ten to twenty, until our
numbers were nearly equal, and then we sallied out
upon the hounds, and not a man of them ever got back
to tell the fate of his party. Yes, yes; I was then
young, and new to the sight of blood, and not relishing the thought that creatures who had spirits like
myself, should lay on the naked ground, to be torn


asunder by beasts, or to bleach in the rains, I buried
the bead with my own hands, under that very little
hillock, where you have placed yourselves; and no
bad seat does it make either, though it be raised by
the bones of mortal men."
   Heyward and the sisters arose on the instant from
the grassy sepulchre; nor could the two latter, notwithstanding the terrific scenes they had so recently
passed through, entirely suppress an emotion of natural horror, when they found themselves in such
familiar contact with the grave of the dead Mohawks. The gray light, the gloomy little area of
dark grass, surrounded by its border of brush, beyond
which the pines rose, in breathing silence, apparently,
into the very clouds, and the death-like stillness of the
vast forest, were all in unison to deepen such a sensation.
   "They are gone, and they are harmless," continued
Hawk-eye, waving his hand, with a melancholy
smile, at their manifest alarm; "they'll never shout
the warwhoop, nor strike a blow with the tomahawk,
again! And of all those who aided in placing them
where they lie, Chingachgook and I only are living!
The brothers and family of the Mohican formed our
war party, and you see before you, all that are now
left of his race."
   The eyes of the listeners involuntarily sought the
forms of the Indians, with a compassionate interest in
their desolate fortune. Their dark persons were
still to be seen within the shadows of the block-house,
the son listening to the relation of his father, with
that sort of intenseness, which would be created by a
narrative, that redounded so much to the honour of


those, whose names he had long revered for their
courage and savage virtues.
   "I had thought the Delawares a pacific people,"
said Duncan, "and that they never waged war in
person; trusting the defence of their lands to those
very Mohawks that you slew!"
   "'Tis true in part," returned the scout, "and
yet, at the bottom, 'tis a wicked lie. Such a treaty
was made in ages gone by, through the deviltries of
the Dutchers, who wished to disarm the natives that
had the best right to the country, where they had
settled themselves. The Mohicans, though a part
of the same nation, having to deal with the English,
never entered into the silly bargain, but kept to their
manhood; as in truth did the Delawares, when their
eyes were opened to their folly. You see before
you, a chief of the great Mohican Sagamores! Once
his family could chase their deer over tracts of country wider than that which belongs to the Albany
Patteroon, without crossing brook or hill, that was
not their own; but what is left to their descendant! He may find his six feet of earth, when
God chooses; and eep it in peace, perhaps, if he has
a friend who will take the pains to sink his head so
low, that the ploughshares cannot reach it!"
   "Enough!" said Heyward, apprehensive that
the subject might lead to a discussion that would
interrupt the harmony, so necessary to the preservation of his fair companions; "we have journeyed far, and few among us are blest with forms like
that of yours, which seems to know neither fatigue
nor weakness."


    
   "The sinews and bones of a man carry me through
it all," said the hunter, surveying his muscular limbs
with a simplicity that betrayed the honest pleasure
the compliment afforded him; "there are larger and
heavier men to be found in the settlements, but you
might travel many days in a city, before you could
meet one able to walk fifty miles without stopping to
take breath, or who has kept the hounds within
hearing during a chase of hours. However, as flesh
and blood are not always the same, it is quite reasonable to suppose, that the gentle ones are willing to
rest, after all they have seen and done this day.
Uncas, clear out the spring, while your father and I
make a cover for their tender heads of these chestnut shoots, and a bed of grass and leaves."
   The dialogue ceased, while the hunter and his
companions busied themselves in preparations for
the comfort and protection of those they guided. A
spring, which many long years before had induced the
natives to select the place for their temporary fortification, was soon cleared of leaves, and a fountain of
crystal gushed from the bed, diffusing its waters
over the verdant hillock. A corner of the building
was then roofed in such a manner, as to exclude the
heavy dew of the climate, and piles of sweet shrubs
and dried leaves were laid beneath it, for the sisters
to repose on.
   While the diligent woodsmen were employed in
this manner, Cora and Alice partook of that refreshment, which duty required, much more than inclination prompted, them to accept. They then retired
within the walls, and first offering up their thanks


givings for past mercies, and petitioning for a continuance of the Divine favour throughout the coming
night, they laid their tender forms on the fragrant
couch, and in spite of recollections and forebodings,
soon sunk into those slumbers which nature so imperiously demanded, and which were sweetened by hopes
for the morrow. Duncan had prepared himself
to pass the night in watchfulness, near them, just
without the ruin; but the scout, perceiving his intention, pointed towards Chingachgook, as he coolly
disposed his own person on the grass, and said -- 
   "The eyes of a white man are too heavy, and too
blind, for such a watch as this! The Mohican will
be our sentinel; therefore, let us sleep."
   "I proved myself a sluggard on my post during the
past night," said Heyward, "and have less need of
repose than you, who did more credit to the character of a soldier. Let all the party seek their rest,
then, while I hold the guard."
   "If we lay among the white tents of the 60th, and
in front of an enemy like the French, I could not ask
for a better watchman," returned the scout; "but in
the darkness, and among the signs of the wilderness,
your judgment would be like the folly of a child, and
your vigilance thrown away. Do, then, like Uncas
and myself; sleep, and sleep in safety."
   Heyward perceived, in truth, that the younger Indian had thrown his form on the side of the hillock,
while they were talking, like one who sought to make
the most of the time allotted to rest, and that his example had been followed by David, whose voice literally `clove to his jaws' with the fever of his wound,


heightened, as it was, by their toilsome march. Unwilling to prolong a useless discussion, the young
man affected to comply, by posting his back against
the logs of the block-house, in a half-recumbent posture, though resolutely determined, in his own mind,
not to close an eye until he had delivered his precious
charge into the arms of Munro himself. Hawk-eye,
believing he had prevailed, soon fell asleep, and a silence as deep as the solitude in which they had found
it, pervaded the retired spot.
   For many minutes Duncan succeeded in keeping his
senses on the alert, and alive to every moaning sound
that arose from the forest. His vision became more
acute, as the shades of evening settled on the place,
and even after the stars were glimmering above his
head, he was able to distinguish the recumbent forms of
his companions, as they lay stretched on the grass, and
to note the person of Chingachgook, who sat upright,
and motionless as one of the trees, which formed the
dark barrier on every side of them. He still heard the
gentle breathings of the sisters, who lay within a few
feet of him, and not a leaf was ruffled by the passing
air, of which his ear did not detect the whispering
sound. At length, however, the mournful notes of a
whip-poor-will, became blended with the moanings of
an owl; his heavy eyes occasionally sought the bright
rays of the stars, and then he fancied he saw them
through the fallen lids. At instants of momentary wakefulness, he mistook a bush for his associate sentinel;
his head next sunk upon his shoulder, which, in its
turn, sought the support of the round; and, finally,
his whole person became relaxed and pliant, and the
