


young man sunk into a deep sleep, dreaming that he
was a knight of ancient chivalry, holding his midnight
vigils before the tent of a re-captured princess, whose
favour he did not despair of gaining, by such a proof
of devotion and watchfulness.
   How long the tired Duncan lay in this insensible
state he never knew himself, but his slumbering visions had been long lost in total forgetfulness, when
he was awakened by a light tap on the shoulder.
Aroused by this signal, slight as it was, he sprang
upon his feet, with a confused recollection of the
self-imposed duty he had assumed with the commencement of the night -- 
   "Who comes?" he demanded, feeling for his
sword, at the place where it was usually suspended.
"Speak! friend or enemy?"
   "Friend," replied the low voice of Chingachgook;
who, pointing upward at the luminary which was
shedding its mild light through the opening in the
trees, directly on their bivouac, immediately added,
in his rude English, "moon comes, and white man's
fort far -- far off; time to move, when sleep shuts both
eyes of the Frenchman!"
   "You say true! call up your friends, and bridle
the horses, while I prepare my own companions for
the march."
   "We are awake, Duncan," said the soft, silvery
tones of Alice within the building, "and ready to
travel very fast, after so refreshing a sleep; but you
have watched through the tedious night, in our behalf, after having endured so much fatigue the livelong day!"


    
   "Say, rather, I would have watched, but my
treacherous eyes betrayed me; twice have I proved
myself unfit for the trust I bear."
   "Nay, Duncan, deny it not," interrupted the smiling Alice, issuing from the shadows of the building
into the light of the moon, in all the loveliness of her
freshened beauty; "I know you to be a heedless
one, when self is the object of your care, and but too
vigilant in favour of others. Can we not tarry here
a little longer, while you find the rest you need.
Cheerfully, most cheerfully, will Cora and I keep
the vigils, while you, and all these brave men, endeavour to snatch a little sleep!"
   "If shame could cure me of my drowsiness, I
should never close an eye again," said the uneasy
youth, gazing at the ingenuous countenance of Alice,
where, however, in its sweet solicitude, he read
nothing to confirm his half awakened suspicion.
"It is but too true, that after leading you into danger by my heedlessness, I have not even the merit of
guarding your pillows, as should became a soldier."
   "No one but Duncan himself, should accuse Duncan of such a weakness!" returned the confiding
Alice; who lent herself, with all a woman's confidence to that generous delusion which painted the
perfection of her youthful admirer. "Go, then, and
sleep; believe me, neither of us, weak girls as we are,
will betray our watch."
   The young man was relieved from the awkwardness of making any further protestations of his own
demerits, by an exclamation from Chingachgook,


and the attitude of riveted attention assumed by his
son.
   "The Mohicans hear an enemy!" whispered Hawkeye, who, by this time, in common with the whole
party, was awake and stirring. "They scent some
danger in the wind!"
   "God forbid!" exclaimed Heyward. "Surely,
we have had enough of bloodshed!"
   While he spoke, however, the young soldier seized
his rifle, and advancing towards the front, prepared
to atone for his venial remissness, by freely exposing
his life in defence of those he attended.
   "'Tis some creature of the forest prowling around
us in quest of food!" he said, in a whisper, as soon as
the low, and, apparently, distant sounds, which had
startled the Mohicans, reached his own ears.
   "Hist!" returned the attentive scout; "'tis man;
even I can now tell his tread, poor as my senses are,
when compared to an Indian's! That scampering
Huron has fallen in with one of Montcalm's outlying
parties, and they have struck upon our trail. I
shouldn't like myself to spill more human blood in this
spot," he added, looking around with anxiety in his features, at the dim objects by which he was surrounded;
"but what must be, must! Lead the horses into the
block-house, Uncas; and, friends, do you follow to
the same shelter. Poor and old as it is, it offers a
cover, and has rung with the crack of a rifle afore to
night!"
   He was instantly obeyed, the Mohicans leading the
Narragansets within the ruin, whither the whole party repaired, with the most guarded silence.


    
   The sounds of approaching footsteps was now too
distinctly audible, to leave any doubts as to the nature of the interruption. They were soon mingled
with voices, calling to each other, in an Indian dialect, which the hunter, in a whisper, affirmed to Heyward, was the language of the Hurons. When the
party reached the point where the horses had entered
the thicket which surrounded the block-house, they
were evidently at fault, having lost those marks which,
until that moment, had directed their pursuit.
   It would seem by the voices that twenty men were
soon collected at that one spot, mingling their different opinions and advice, in noisy clamour.
   "The knaves know our weakness," whispered
Hawk-eye, who stood by the side of Heyward, in
deep shade, looking through an opening in the logs,
"or they wouldn't indulge their idleness in such a
squaw's march. Listen to the reptiles! each man
among them seems to have two tongues, and but a
single leg!"
   Duncan, brave, and even fierce as he sometimes
was in the combat, could not, in such a moment of
painful suspense, make any reply to the cool and
characteristic remark of the scout. He only grasped his rifle more firmly, and fastened his eyes upon
the narrow opening, through which he gazed upon
the moonlight view with increasing intenseness. The
deeper tones of one who spoke as having authority,
were next heard, amid a silence that denoted the
respect with which his orders, or rather advice, was
received. After which, by the rustling of leaves,
and cracking of dried twigs, it was apparent the sa


vages were separating in pursuit of the lost trail.
Fortunately for the pursued, the light of the moon,
while it shed a flood of mild lustre, upon the little
area around the ruin, was not sufficiently strong to
penetrate the deep arches of the forest, where the
objects still lay in dim and deceptive shadow. The
search proved fruitless; for so short and sudden had
been the passage from the faint path the travellers
had journeyed into the thicket, that every trace of
their footsteps was lost in the obscurity of the woods.
   It was not long, however, before the restless savages were heard beating the brush, and gradually
approaching the inner edge of that dense border of
young chestnuts, which encircled the little area.
   "They are coming!" muttered Heyward, endeavouring to thrust his rifle through the chink in the
logs; "let us fire on their approach!"
   "Keep every thing in the shade," returned the
scout; "the snapping of a flint, or even the smell of a
single karnel of the brimstone, would bring the hungry varlets upon us in a body. Should it please
God, that we must give battle for the scalps, trust to
the experience of men who know the ways of the savages, and who are not often backward when the warwhoop is howled."
   Duncan cast his eyes anxiously behind him, and
saw that the trembling sisters were cowering in the
far corner of the building, while the Mohicans stood
in the shadow, like two upright posts, ready, and apparently willing, to strike, when the blow should be
needed. Curbing his impatience, he again looked
out upon the area, and awaited the result in silence.


