
At that instant the thicket opened, and a tall and
armed Huron advanced a few paces into the open
space. As he gazed upon the silent block-house,
the moon fell full upon his swarthy countenance, and
betrayed its surprise and curiosity. He made the
exclamation, which usually accompanies the former
emotion in an Indian, and calling in a low voice, soon
drew a companion to his side.
   These children of the woods stood together for several moments, pointing at the crumbling edifice,
and conversing in the unintelligible language of their
tribe. They then approached, though with slow
and cautious steps, pausing every instant to look at
the building, like startled deer, whose curiosity struggled powerfully with their awakened apprehensions
for the mastery. The foot of one of them suddenly rested on the mound, and he stooped to examine its nature. At this moment, Heyward observed that the scout loosened his knife in its sheath,
and lowered the muzzle of his rifle. Imitating these
movements, the young man prepared himself for the
struggle, which now seemed inevitable.
   The savages were so near, that the least motion in one of the horses, or even a breath louder
than common, would have betrayed the fugitives.
But, in discovering the character of the mound, the
attention of the Hurons appeared directed to a different object. They spoke together, and the sounds
of their voices were low and solemn, as if influenced
by a reverence that was deeply blended with awe.
Then they drew warily back, keeping their eyes riveted on the ruin, as if they expected to see the appari


tions of the dead issue from its silent walls, until
having reached the boundary of the area, they
moved slowly into the thicket, and disappeared.
   Hawk-eye dropped the breech of his rifle to the
earth, and drawing a long, free breath, exclaimed,
in an audible whisper -- 
   "Ay! they respect the dead, and it has this time
saved their own lives, and it may be, the lives of better men too!"
   Heyward lent his attention, for a single moment,
to his companion, but without replying, he again
turned towards those who just then interested him
more. He heard the two Hurons leave the bushes,
and it was soon plain that all the pursuers were
gathered about them, in deep attention to their report.
After a few minutes of earnest and solemn dialogue,
altogether different from the noisy clamour with
which they had first collected about the spot, the
sounds grew fainter, and more distant, and finally
were lost in the depths of the forest.
   Hawk-eye waited until a signal from the listening
Chingachgook assured him that every sound from
the retiring party was completely swallowed by the
distance, when he motioned to Heyward to lead
forth the horses, and to assist the sisters into their
saddles. The instant this was done, they issued
through the broken gate-way, and stealing out by a
direction opposite to the one by which they had entered, they quitted the spot, the sisters casting furtive glances at the silent grave and crumbling ruin, as
they left the soft light of the moon, to bury themselves
in the deep gloom of the woods.


Chapter 14
CHAPTER XIV.
"Guard.
    -- Qui est là?
Puc.
    -- Païsans, pauvres gens de France."
King Henry VI. 
    
   During the rapid movement from the blockhouse, and until the party was deeply buried in the
forest, each individual was too much interested in
their escape, to hazard a word even in whispers.
The scout resumed his post in the advance, though
his steps, after he had thrown a safe distance between himself and his enemies, were more deliberate
than in their previous march, in consequence of his
utter ignorance of the localities of the surrounding woods. More than once he halted to consult with his confederates, the Mohicans, pointing
upwards at the moon, and examining the barks of
the trees with extraordinary care. In these brief
pauses, Heyward and the sisters listened, with senses
rendered doubly acute by their danger, to detect
any symptoms which might announce the proximity of their foes. At such moments, it seemed as
if a vast range of country lay buried in eternal sleep;
not the least sound arising from the forest, unless it
was the distant and scarcely audible rippling of a
water-course. Birds, beasts, and man, appeared to
slumber alike, if, indeed, any of the latter were to be


found in that wide tract of wilderness. But the sounds
of the rivulet, feeble and murmuring as they were,
relieved the guides at once from no trifling embarrassment, and towards it they immediately held their
silent and diligent way.
   When the banks of the little stream were gained,
Hawk-eye made another halt; and, taking the moccasins from his feet, he invited Heyward and Gamut
to follow his example. He then entered the water,
and for near an hour they travelled in the bed of the
brook, leaving no dangerous trail. The moon had
already sunk into an immense pile of black clouds,
which lay impending above the western horizon,
when they issued from the low and devious water
course to rise, again, to the light and level of the
sandy but wooded plain. Here the scout seemed to
be once more at home, for he held on his way, with
the certainty and diligence of a man, who moved in
the security of his own knowledge. The path soon
became more uneven, and the travellers could plainly perceive, that the mountains drew nigher to them
on each hand, and that they were, in truth, about entering one of their widest gorges. Suddenly, Hawkeye made a pause, and waiting until he was joined by
the whole party, he spoke; though in tones so low
and cautious, that they added to the solemnity of his
words, in the quiet and darkness of the place.
   "It is easy to know the path-ways, and to find the
licks and water-courses of the wilderness," he said;
"but who that saw this spot, could venture to say,
that a mighty army was at rest among yonder silent
trees and barren mountains!"


    
   "We are then at no great distance from William
Henry?" said Heyward, advancing, with interest,
nigher to the scout.
   "It is yet a long and weary path," was the answer,
"and when and where to strike it, is now our greatest difficulty. See," he said, pointing through the
trees towards a spot where a little basin of water reflected the bright stars from its still and placid bosom, "here is the `bloody pond;' and I am on ground
that I have not only often travelled, but over which
I have fou't the enemy, from the rising to the setting
sun!"
   "Ha! that sheet of dull and dreary water, then, is
the sepulchre of the brave men who fell in the contest! I have heard it named, but never have I stood
on its banks before!"
   "Three battles did we make with the Dutch
Frenchman in a day!" continued Hawk-eye, pursuing the train of his own thoughts, rather than replying to the remark of Duncan. "He met us hard by,
in our outward march to ambush his advance, and
scattered us, like driven deer, through the defile, to
the shores of Horican. Then we rallied behind our
fallen trees, and made head against him, under Sir
William -- who was made Sir William for that very
deed; and well did we pay him for the disgrace of
the morning! Hundreds of Frenchmen saw the sun
that day for the last time; and even their leader,
Dieskau himself, fell into our hands, so cut and torn
with the lead, that he has gone back to his own
country, unfit for further acts in war."
   "'Twas a noble repulse!" exclaimed Heyward


