
in the heat of his youthful ardour; "the fame of it
reached us early in our southern army."
   "Ay! but it did not end there. I was sent by Major
Effingham, at Sir William's own bidding, to out-flank
the French, and carry the tidings of their disaster
across the portage, to the fort on the Hudson. Just
hereaway, where you see the trees rise into a mountain swell, I met a party coming down to our aid, and
I led them where the enemy were taking their meal,
little dreaming that they had not finished the bloody
work of the day."
   "And you surprised them!"
   "If death can be a surprise to men who are thinking only of the cravings of their appetites! we gave
them but little breathing time, for they had borne
hard upon us in the fight of the morning, and there
were few in our party who had not lost friend or relative by their hands. When all was over, the dead,
and some say the dying, were cast into that little pond.
These eyes have seen its waters coloured with blood,
as natural water never yet flowed from the bowels of
the 'arth."
   "It was a convenient, and, I trust, will prove a
peaceful grave for a soldier! You have, then, seen
much service on this frontier?"
   "I!" said the scout, erecting his tall person with
an air of military pride; "there are not many echoes
among these hills that haven't rung with the crack of
my rifle, nor is there the space of a square mile
atwixt Horican and the river, that `kill-deer' hasn't
dropped a living body on, be it an enemy, or be it a
brute beast. As for the grave there, being as quiet as


you mention, it is another matter. There are them
in the camp, who say and think, man to lie still,
should not be buried while the breath is in the body;
and certain it is, that in the hurry of that evening, the
doctors had but little time to say who was living, and
who was dead. Hist! see you nothing, now, walking
on the shore of the pond?"
   "'Tis not probable that any are as houseless as ourselves, in this dreary forest."
   "Such as he may care but little for house or shelter, and night dew can never wet a body that passes
its days in the water!" returned the scout, grasping
the shoulder of Heyward, with such convulsive
strength, as to make the young soldier painfully sensible how much superstitious terror had gotten the
mastery of a man, who was usually so dauntless.
   "By heaven! there is a human form, and it approaches! stand to your arms, my friends, for we
know not whom we encounter."
   "Qui vive?" demanded a stern and deep voice,
which sounded like a challenge from another world,
issuing out of that solitary and solemn place.
   "What says it?" whispered the scout; "it speaks
neither Indian nor English!"
   "Qui vive?" repeated the same voice, which was
quickly followed by the rattling of arms, and a menacing attitude.
   "France," cried Heyward, advancing from the
shadow of the trees, to the shore of the pond, within a few yards of the sentinel.
   "D'où venez-vous -- où allez-vous d'aussi bonne


heure?" demanded the grenadier, in the language,
and with the accent of a man from old France.
   "Je viens de la découverte, et je vais me coucher."
   "Etes-vous officier du roi?"
   "Sans doute, mon camarade; me prends-tu pour
un provincial! Je suis capitaine de chasseurs ( Heyward well knew that the other was of a regiment in
the line) -- j'ai ici, avec moi, les filles du commandant
de la fortification. Aha! tu en as entendu parler!
je les ai fait prisonnières près de l'autre fort, et je les
conduis au général."
   "Ma foi! mesdames; j'en suis faché pour vous,"
exclaimed the young soldier, touching his cap with
studious politeness, and no little grace; "mais -- fortune de guerre! vous trouverez notre général un
brave homme, et bien poli avec les dames."
   "C'est le caractère des gens de guerre," said Cora, with admirable self-possession; "Adieu, mon
ami; je vous souhaiterais un devoir plus agrèable,
àremplir."
   The soldier made a low and humble acknowledgment for her civility; and Heyward adding, "a bonne
nuit, mon camarade," they moved deliberately forward; leaving the sentinel pacing along the banks of
the silent pond, little suspecting an enemy of so much
effrontery, and humming to himself those words
which were recalled to his mind by the sight of women, and, perhaps, by recollections of his own distant
and beautiful France -- 
   "Vive le vin, vive l'amour," &c. &c.


    
   "'Tis well you understood the knave!" whispered the scout, when they had gained a little distance
from the place, and letting his rifle fall into the hollow
of his arm again; "I soon saw that he was one of
them uneasy Frenchers, and well for him it was, that
his speech was friendly, and his wishes kind; or a
place might have been found for his bones amongst
those of his countrymen."
   He was interrupted by a long and heavy groan,
which arose from the little basin, as though, in truth,
the spirits of the departed lingered about their watery
sepulchre.
   "Surely, it was of flesh!" continued the scout;
"no spirit could handle its arms so steadily!"
   "It was of flesh, but whether the poor fellow still
belongs to this world, may well be doubted," said
Heyward, glancing his eyes quickly around him, and
missing Chingachgook from their little band. Another groan, more faint than the former, was succeeded by a heavy and sullen plunge into the water, and
all was as still again, as if the borders of the dreary
pool had never been awakened from the silence of
creation. While they yet hesitated in an uncertainty, that each moment served to render more
painful, the form of the Indian was seen gliding out
of the thicket, and rejoined them, while with one
hand he attached the reeking scalp of the unfortunate young Frenchman to his girdle, and with the
other he replaced the knife and tomahawk that had
drank his blood. He then took his wonted station,
a little on one flank, with the satisfied air of a man
who believed he had done a deed of merit.


    
   The scout dropped one end of his rifle to the
earth, and leaning his hands on the other, he stood
musing a moment in profound silence. Then shaking
his head in a mournful manner, he muttered -- 
   "'Twould have been a cruel and an unhuman act
for a white-skin; but 'tis the gift and natur of an Indian, and I suppose it should not be denied! I could
wish, though, it had befallen an accursed Mingo, rather
than that gay, young boy, from the old countries!"
   "Enough!" said Heyward, apprehensive the unconscious sisters might comprehend the nature of the
detention, and conquering his disgust by a train of reflections very much like that of the hunter; "'tis
done, and though better it were left undone, cannot
be amended. You see we are, too obviously, within the sentinels of the enemy; what course do you
propose to follow?"
   "Yes," said Hawk-eye, rousing himself again,
"'tis, as you say, too late to harbour further thoughts
about it! Ay, the French have gathered around the
fort in good earnest, and we have a delicate needle
to thread in passing them."
   "And but little time to do it in," added Heyward;
glancing his eyes upward, towards the bank of vapour that concealed the setting moon.
   "And little time to do it in!" repeated the scout.
"The thing may be done in two fashions, by the help
of Providence, without which it may not be done at
all!"
   "Name them quickly, for time presses."
   "One would be, to dismount the gentle ones, and
let their beasts range the plain; by sending the Mo


