
hicans in front, we might then cut a lane through
their sentries, and enter the fort over the dead bodies."
   "It will not do -- it will not do!" interrupted the
generous Heyward; "a soldier might force his way
in this manner, but never with such a convoy."
   "'Twould be, indeed, a bloody path for such tender feet to wade in!" returned the equally reluctant
scout, "but I thought it befitting my manhood to
name the thing. We must then turn on our trail,
and get without the line of their look-outs, when we
will bend short to the west, and enter the mountains;
where I can hide you, so that all the devil's hounds
in Montcalm's pay would be thrown off the scent, for
months to come."
   "Let it be done," returned the impatient young
man, "and that instantly."
   Further words were unnecessary; for Hawk-eye,
merely uttering the mandate to "follow," moved
along the route, by which they had just entered their
present, critical, and even dangerous situation.
Their progress, like their late dialogue, was guarded,
and without noise; for none knew at what moment a
passing patrol, or a crouching picquet, of the enemy,
might rise upon their path. As they held their silent
way along the margin of the pond, again, Heyward
and the scout stole furtive glances at its appalling
dreariness. They looked in vain for the form they
had so recently seen stalking along its silent shores,
while a low and regular wash of the little waves, by
announcing that the waters were not yet subsided,
furnished a frightful memorial of the deed of blood


they had just witnessed. Like all that passing and
gloomy scene, the low basin, however, quickly melted in the darkness, and became blended with the
mass of black objects in the rear of the active travellers.
   Hawk-eye soon deviated from the line of their retreat, and striking off towards the mountains which
form the western boundary of the narrow plain,
he led his followers, with swift steps, deep within the
dense shadows, that were cast from their high and broken summits. Their route was now painful; lying
over ground ragged with rocks, and intersected with
ravines, and their progress proportionately slow.
Bleak and black hills lay on every side of them, compensating, in some degree, for the additional toil
of the march, by the sense of security they imparted. At length the party began slowly to rise a
steep and rugged ascent, by a path that curiously
wound among rocks and trees, avoiding the one, and
supported by the other, in a manner that showed it had
been devised by men long practised in the arts of the
wilderness. As they gradually rose from the level of
the valleys, the thick darkness which usually precedes the approach of day, began to disperse, and
objects were seen in the plain and palpable colours with which they had been gifted by nature.
When they issued from the stinted woods which clung
to the barren sides of the mountain, upon a flat and
mossy rock, that formed its summit, they met the
morning, as it came blushing above the green pines
of a hill, that lay on the opposite side of the valley of
the Horican.


    
   The scout now told the sisters to dismount,
and taking the bridles from the mouths and the
saddles off the backs of the jaded beasts, he turned
them loose, to glean a scanty subsistence, among the
shrubs and meager herbage of that elevated region.
   "Go," he said, "and seek your food where natur gives it you; and beware that you become not
food to ravenous wolves yourselves, among these
hills."
   "Have we no further need of them?" demanded
Heyward.
   "See, and judge with your own eyes," said the scout,
advancing towards the eastern brow of the mountain,
whither he beckoned for the whole party to follow;
"if it was as easy to look into the heart of man, as it
is to spy out the nakedness of Montcalm's camp from
this spot, hypocrites would grow scarce, and the cunning of a Mingo might prove a losing game, compared to the honesty of a Delaware."
   When the travellers had reached the verge of the
precipice, they saw, at a glance, the truth of the
scout's declaration, and the admirable foresight with
which he had led them to their commanding station.
   The mountain on which they stood, elevated perhaps a thousand feet in the air, was a high cone,
that rose a little in advance of that range which reached for miles along the western shores of the lake, until meeting its sister piles, beyond the water, it ran
off far towards the Canadas, in confused and broken
masses of rock, which were thinly sprinkled with evergreens. Immediately at the feet of the parts the southern shore of the Horican swept in a broad semi-circle,


from mountain to mountain, marking a wide strand,
that soon rose into an uneven and somewhat elevated
plain. To the north, stretched the limpid, and, as it
appeared from that dizzy height, the narrow sheet of
the "holy lake," indented with numberless bays, embellished by fantastic head-lands, and dotted with
countless islands. At the distance of a few leagues, the
bed of the waters became lost among mountains, or
was wrapped in the masses of vapour, that came slowly
rolling along their bosom, before a light morning air.
But a narrow opening between the crests of the hills,
pointed out the passage by which they found their way
still farther north, to spread their pure and ample
sheets again, before pouring out their tribute into
the distant Champlain. To the south stretched the
defile, or, rather, broken plain, so often mentioned.
For several miles, in this direction, the mountains appeared reluctant to yield their dominion, but within
reach of the eye they diverged, and finally melted into
the level and sandy lands, across which we have accompanied our adventurers in their double journey.
Along both ranges of hills, which bounded the opposite sides of the lake and valley, clouds of light
vapour were rising in spiral wreaths from the uninhabited woods, looking like the smokes of hidden cottages, or rolled lazily down the declivities, to mingle
with the fogs of the lower land. A single, solitary,
snow-white cloud, floated above the valley, and marked the spot, beneath which lay the silent pool of the
`bloody pond.'
   Directly on the shore of the lake, and nearer to its
western than to its eastern margin, lay the extensive


earthen ramparts and low buildings of William Henry. Two of the sweeping bastions appeared to rest on
the water, which washed their bases, while a deep
ditch and extensive morasses guarded its other sides
and angles. The land had been cleared of wood for
a reasonable distance around the work, but every
other part of the scene lay in the green livery of nature, except where the limpid water mellowed the
view, or the bold rocks thrust their black and naked
heads above the undulating outlines of the mountain
ranges. In its front, might be seen the scattered sentinels, who held a weary watch against their numerous foes; and within the walls themselves, the travellers looked down upon men still drowsy with a
night of vigilance. Towards the south-east, but in
immediate contact with the fort, was an entrenched
camp, posted on a rocky eminence, that would have
been far more eligible for the work itself, in which
Hawk-eye pointed out the presence of those auxiliary
regiments that had so recently left the Hudson, in
their company. From the woods, a little farther
to the south, rose numerous dark and lurid smokes,
that were easily to be distinguished from the purer
exhalations of the springs, and which the scout also
showed to Heyward, as evidences that the enemy lay
in force in that direction.
   But the spectacle which most concerned the young
soldier, was on the western bank of the lake, though
quite near to its southern termination. On a stripe
of land, which appeared, from his stand, too narrow
to contain such an army, but which, in truth, extended many hundreds of yards from the shores of the


Horican to the base of the mountain, were to be seen
the white tents and military engines for an encampment of ten thousand men. Batteries were already thrown up in their front, and even while the
spectators above them were looking down, with such
different emotions, on a scene, which lay like
a map beneath their feet, the roar of artillery rose
from out the valley, and passed off, in thundering
echoes, along the eastern hills.
   "Morning is just touching them below," said the
deliberate and musing scout, "and the watchers have
a mind to wake up the sleepers by the sound of cannon. We are a few hours too late! Montcalm has
already filled the woods with his accursed Iroquois."
   "The place is, indeed, invested," returned Duncan; "but is there no expedient by which we may
enter? capture in the works would be far preferable
to falling, again, into the hands of roving Indians."
   "See!" exclaimed the scout, unconsciously directing the attention of Cora to the quarters of her own
father, "how that shot has made the stones fly from
the side of the commandant's house! Ay! these
Frenchers will pull it to pieces faster than it was put
together, solid and thick though it be!"
   "Heyward, I sicken at the sight of danger, that I
cannot share," said the undaunted but anxious daughter. "Let us go to Montcalm, and demand admission; he dare no deny a child the boon!"
   "You would scarce find the tent of the Frenchman
with the hair on your head!" said the blunt scout.
"If I had but one of the thousand boats which lie empty
along that shore, it might be done. Ha! here will


