
soon be an end of the firing, for yonder comes a fog
that will turn day to night, and make an Indian arrow
more dangerous than a moulded cannon. Now, if
you are equal to the work, and will follow, I will
make a push; for I long to get down into that camp,
if it be only to scatter some Mingo dogs, that I see
lurking in the skirts of yonder thicket of birch."
   "We are equal!" said Cora, firmly; "on such
an errand we will follow to any danger!"
   The scout turned to her with a smile of honest and
cordial approbation, as he answered -- 
   "I would I had a thousand men, of brawny limbs
and quick eyes, that feared death as little as you!
I'd send them jabbering Frenchers back into their
den again, afore the week was ended, howling like so
many fettered hounds, or hungry wolves. But stir,"
he added, turning from her to the rest of the party, "the
fog comes rolling down so fast, we shall have but just
the time to meet it on the plain, and use it as a cover.
Remember, if any accident should befall me, to keep
the air blowing on your left cheeks -- or, rather, follow
the Mohicans; they'd scent their way, be it in day,
or be it at night."
   He then waved his hand for them to follow, and
threw himself down the steep declivity, with free but
careful footsteps. Heyward assisted the sisters to
descend, and in a few minutes they were all far
down a mountain, whose sides they had climbed with
so much toil and pain.
   The direction taken by Hawk-eye soon brought
the travellers to the level of the plain, nearly opposite to a sally-port, in the western curtain of the fort,


which lay, itself, at the distance of about half & mile
from the point where he halted, to allow Duncan to
come up with his charge. In their eagerness, and
favoured by the nature of the ground, they had anticipated the fog, which was rolling heavily down the
lake, and it became necessary to pause, until the
mists had wrapped the camp of the enemy in their
fleecy mantle. The Mohicans profited by the delay,
to steal out of the woods, and to make a survey of
surrounding objects. They were followed, at a little
distance, by the scout, with a view to profit early by
their report, and to obtain some faint knowledge for
himself of the more immediate localities.
   In a very few moments he returned, his face reddened with vexation, while he muttered forth his
disappointment in words of no very gentle import.
   "Here, has the cunning Frenchman been posting a
picquet directly in our path," he said; "red-skins
and whites; and we shall be as likely to fall into
their midst, as to pass them in the fog!"
   "Cannot we make a circuit to avoid the danger,"
asked Heyward, "and come into our path again
when it is past?"
   "Who that once bends from the line of his march,
in a fog, can tell when or how to turn to find it again!
The mists of Horican are not like the curls from a
peace-pipe, or the smoke which settles above a mosquetoe fire!"
   He was yet speaking, when a crashing sound was
heard, and a cannon ball entered the thicket, striking
the body of a sapling, and rebounding to the earth, its
force being much expended by previous resistance.


The Indians followed instantly like busy attendants on
the terrible messenger, and Uncas commenced speaking earnestly, and with much action, in the Delaware
tongue.
   "It may be so, lad," muttered the scout, when he
had ended; "for desperate fevers are not to be treated like a tooth-ache. Come, then, the fog is shutting in."
   "Stop!" cried Heyward; "first explain your expectations."
   "'Tis soon done, and a small hope it is; but then
it is better than nothing. This shot that you see,"
added the scout, kicking the harmless iron with his
foot, "has ploughed the 'arth in its road from the
fort, and we shall hunt for the furrow it has made,
when all other signs may fail. No more words, but
follow; or the fog may leave us in the middle of our
path, a mark for both armies to shoot at."
   Heyward perceiving that, in fact, a crisis had arrived, when acts were more required than words,
placed himself between the sisters, and drew them
swiftly forward, keeping the dim figure of their leader in his eye. It was soon apparent that Hawk-eye
had not magnified the power of the fog, for before
they had proceeded twenty yards, it was difficult for
the different individuals of the party to distinguish
each other, in the vapour.
   They had made their little circuit to the left, and
were already inclining again towards the right,
having, as Heyward thought, got over nearly half the
distance to the friendly works, when his ears were sa


luted with the fierce summons, apparently within
twenty feet of them, of -- 
   "Qui va la?"
   "Push on!" whispered the scout, once more
bending to the left.
   "Push on!" repeated Heyward; when the summons was renewed by a dozen voices, each of which
seemed charged with threatening menaces.
   "C'est moi," cried Duncan, dragging, rather than
leading, those he supported, swiftly, onward.
   "Bête! qui? moi!"
   "Un ami de la France."
   "Tu m'as plus l'air d'un ennemi de la France;
arrete! ou pardieu je te ferai ami du diable. Non!
feu; camarades; feu!"
   The order was instantly obeyed, and the fog was
stirred by the explosion of fifty muskets. Happily,
the aim was bad, and the bullets cut the air in a direction a little different from that taken by the fugitives; though still so nigh them, that to the unpractised ears of David and the two maidens, it appeared as
if they whistled within a few inches of the organs. The
outcry was renewed, and the order, not only to fire
again, but to pursue, was too plainly audible. When
Heyward briefly explained the meaning of the words
they heard, Hawk-eye halted, and spoke with quick
decision and great firmness.
   "Let us deliver our fire," he said; "they will
believe it a sortie, and give way; or will wait for
reinforcements."
   The scheme was well conceived, but failed in its
effect. The instant the French heard their pieces,


it seemed as if the plain was alive with men, muskets
rattling along its whole extent, from the shores of the
lake to the farthest boundary of the woods.
   "We shall draw their entire army upon us, and
bring on a general assault," said Duncan. "Lead
on my friend, for your own life, and ours!"
   The scout seemed willing to comply; but, in the
hurry of the moment, and in the change of position,
he had lost the direction. In vain he turned either cheek towards the light air; they felt equally
cool. In this dilemma, Uncas lighted on the furrow
of the cannon ball, where it had cut the ground in
three little, adjacent, ant-hills.
   "Give me the range!" said Hawk-eye, bending
to catch a glimpse of the direction, and then instantly moving onward.
   Cries, oaths, voices calling to each other, and the
reports of muskets, were now quick and incessant,
and, apparently, on every side of them. Suddenly,
a strong glare of light flashed across the scene, the
fog rolled upward in thick wreaths, and several cannon bleched across the plain, and the roar was thrown
heavily back from the bellowing echoes of the mountain.
   "'Tis from the fort!" exclaimed Hawk-eye, turning short on his tracks; "and we, like stricken fools,
were rushing to the woods, under the very knives of
the Maquas."
   The instant their mistake was rectified, the whole
party retraced the error with the utmost diligence.
Duncan willingly relinquished the support of Cora
to the offered arm of Uncas, and Cora as readily


