
accepted the welcome assistance. Men, hot and
angry in the pursuit, were evidently on their footsteps, and each instant threatened their capture, if
not their destruction.
   "Point de quartier, aux coquins!" cried an eager
pursuer, who seemed to direct the operations of the
enemy.
   "Stand firm, and be ready, my gallant 60ths!"
suddenly exclaimed a voice above them, in the deep
tones of authority; "wait to see the enemy; fire
low, and sweep the glacis."
   "Father! father!" exclaimed a piercing female
cry from out the mist; "it is I! Alice! thy own
Elsie! spare, oh! save, your daughters!"
   "Hold!" shouted the former speaker, in the awful tones of parental agony, the sound reaching even
to the woods, and rolling back in solemn echo.
"'Tis she! God has restored me my children!
Throw open the sally-port; to the field, 60ths, to
the field; pull not a trigger, lest ye kill my lambs!
Drive off these dogs of France with your steel."
   Duncan heard the grating of the rusty hinges,
and darting to the spot, directed by the sound, he met
a long line of dark-red warriors, passing swiftly towards the glacis. He knew them for his own battalion of the royal Americans, and flying to their head,
soon swept every trace of his pursuers from before
the works.
   For an instant, Cora and Alice had stood trembling
and bewildered by this unexpected desertion; but,
before either had leisure for speech, or even thought,
an officer of gigantie frame, whose locks were bleach


ed with years and service, but whose air of military
grandeur had been rather softened than destroyed
by time, rushed out of the body of the mist, and folded them to his bosom, while large, scalding tears rolled down his pale and wrinkled cheeks, and he exclaimed, in the peculiar accent of Scotland -- 
   "For this I thank thee, Lord! Let danger come
as it will, thy servant is prepared!"


Chapter 15
CHAPTER XV.
"Then go we in, to know his embassy; 
Which I could, with a ready guess, declare, 
Before the Frenchman speak a word of it." 
King Henry V. 
    
   The few succeeding days were passed amid all the
privations, the uproar, and the dangers of the siege,
which was vigorously pressed by a power, against
whose approaches Munro possessed no competent
means of resistance. It appeared as if Webb, with
his army, which lay slumbering on the banks of the
Hudson, had utterly forgotten the strait to which his
brethren were reduced. Montcalm had filled the woods
of the portage with his savages, every yell and whoop
from whom rang through the British encampment,
chilling the hearts of men, who were already but too
much disposed to magnify the danger, with additional terror.
   Not so, however, with the besieged. Animated
by the words, and stimulated by the examples of
their leaders, they had found their courage, and
maintained their ancient reputation, with a zeal that
did justice to the stern character of their commander.
As if satisfied with the toil of marching through the
wilderness to encounter his enemy, the French ge


neral, though of approved skill, had neglected
to seize the adjacent mountains; whence the besieged might have been exterminated with impunity, and which, in the more modern warfare of
the country, would not have been neglected for a single hour. This sort of contempt for eminences, or
rather dread of the labour of ascending them, might
have been termed the besetting weakness of the warfare of the period. It originated in the simplicity of
the Indian contests, in which, from the nature of the
combats, and the density of the forests, fortresses were
rare, and artillery next to useless. The carelessness
engendered by these usages, descended even to the
war of the revolution, and lost the states the important fortress of Ticonderoga, opening a way for
the army of Burgoyne, into what was then the bosom
of the country. We look back at this ignorance, or
infatuation, which ever it may be called, with astonishment, knowing that the neglect of an eminence,
whose difficulties, like those of Mount Defiance, had
been so greatly exaggerated, would, at the present
time, prove fatal to the reputation of the engineer
who had planned the works at their base, or to that
of the general, whose lot it was to defend them.
   The tourist, the valetudinarian, or the amateur of
the beauties of nature, who, in the train of his fourin-hand, now rolls through the scenes we have attempted to describe, in quest of information, health,
or pleasure, or floats steadily towards his object on
those artificial waters, which have sprung up under
the administration of a statesman, who has dared to


stake his political character on the hazardous issue, is
not to suppose that his ancestors traversed those hills,
or struggled with the same currents with equal facility.
The transportation of a single heavy gun, was often
considered equal to a victory gained; if happily the
difficulties of the passage had not so far separated it
from its necessary concomitants, the ammunition, as
to render it no more than an useless tube of unwieldy iron.
   The evils of this state of things pressed heavily on
the fortunes of the resolute Scotsman, who now defended William Henry. Though his adversary neglected the hills, he had planted his batteries with judgment on the plain, and caused them to be served with
vigour and skill. Against this assault, the besieged
could only oppose the imperfect and hasty preparations of a fortress in the wilderness, to whose mounds
those extended sheets of water, which stretched into
the Canadas, bore no friendly aid, while they opened
the way to their more fortunate enemies.
   It was on the afternoon of the fifth day of the siege,
and the fourth of his own service in it, that Major
Heyward profited by a parley that had just been beaten, by repairing to the ramparts of one of the water
bastions, to breathe the cool air from the lake, and to
take a survey of the progress of the siege. He was
alone, if the solitary sentinel who paced the mound
be excepted; for the artillerists had hastened also to
profit by the temporary suspension of their arduous duties. The evening was delightfully calm,
and the light air from the limpid water fresh and
soothing. It seemed as if, with the termination to


the roar of artillery, and the plunging of shot, nature
had also seized the moment to assume her mildest and
most captivating form. The sun poured down his
parting glory on the scene, without the oppression of
those fierce rays that belong to the climate and the
season. The mountains looked green, and fresh, and
lovely; tempered with the milder light, or softened in
shadow, as thin vapours floated between them and
the sun. The numerous islands rested on the bosom
of the Horican, some low and sunken, as if imbedded
in the waters, and others appearing to hover above
the element, in little hillocks of green velvet; among
which the fishermen of the beleaguering army peacefully rowed their skiffs, or floated at rest on the
glassy mirror, in quiet pursuit of their game.
   The scene was at once animated and still. All
that pertained to nature was sweet, or simply grand;
while those parts which depended on the temper and
movements of man, were in perfect unison.
   Two little spotless flags were abroad, the one on a
salient angle of the fort, and the other on the advanced
battery of the besiegers; emblems of the truce which
existed, not only to the acts, but it would seem, also,
to the enmity of the combatants. Behind these,
again, swung, heavily opening and closing in silken
folds, the rival standards of England and France.
   A hundred gay and thoughtless young Frenchmen
were drawing a net to the pebbly beach, within dangerous proximity to the sullen but silent cannon of the
fort, while the eastern mountain was sending back
the loud shouts and gay merriment that attended


