
their sport. Some were rushing eagerly to enjoy the
aquatic games of the lake, and others were already
toiling their way up the neighbouring hills, with the
restless curiosity of their nation. To all these sports
and pursuits, those of the enemy who watched the besieged, and the besieged themselves, were, however,
merely the idle, though sympathizing spectators. Here
and there a picquet had, indeed, raised a song, or mingled in a dance, which had drawn the dusky savages
around them, from their lairs in the forest, in mute
astonishment. In short, every thing wore rather the
appearance of a day of pleasure, than of an hour
stolen from the dangers and toil of a bloody and vindictive warfare.
   Duncan had stood in a musing attitude, contemplating this scene a few minutes, when his eyes were directed to the glacis in front of the sally-port, already
mentioned, by the sounds of approaching footsteps.
He walked to an angle of the bastion, and beheld the
scout advancing, under the custody of a French officer, to the body of the fort. The countenance of
Hawk-eye was haggard and care-worn, and his air
dejected, as though he felt the deepest degradation at
having fallen into the power of his enemies. He was
without his favourite weapon, and his arms were even
bound behind him with thongs, made of the skin of a
deer. The arrival of flags, to cover the messengers of
summons, had occurred so often of late, that when
Heyward first threw his careless glance on this groupe,
he expected to see another of the officer of the enemy, charged with a similar office; but the instant he


recognised the tall person, and still sturdy, though
downcast, features of his friend, the woodsman, he
started with surprise, and turned to descend from the
bastion into the bosom of the work.
   The sounds of other voices, however, caught his
attention, and for a moment caused him to forget
his purpose. At the inner angle of the mound, he
met the sisters, walking along the parapet, in search,
like himself, of air and relief from confinement.
They had not met since that painful moment when
he deserted them, on the plain, only to assure their
safety. He had parted from them, worn with care,
and jaded with fatigue; he now saw them refreshed
and blooming, though still timid and anxious. Under such an inducement, it will cause no surprise,
that the young man lost sight, for a time, of other objects, in order to address them. He was, however,
anticipated by the voice of the ardent and youthful
Alice.
   "Ah! thou truant! thou recreant knight! he who
abandons his damsels in the very lists, to abide the
fortunes of the fray!" she cried, in affected reproaches, which her beaming eyes and extended
hands so flatteringly denied. "Here have we been
days, nay, ages, expecting you at our feet, imploring
mercy and forgetfulness of your craven backsliding,
or, I should rather say, back-running -- for verily you
fled in a manner that no stricken deer, as our worthy
friend the scout would say, could equal!"
   "You know that Alice means our thanks and our
blessings," added the graver and more thoughtful
Cora. "In truth, we have a little wondered why


you should so rigidly absent yourself from a place,
where the gratitude of the daughters might receive
the support of a parent's thanks."
   "Your father himself could tell you, that though
absent from your presence, I have not been altogether forgetful of your safety," returned the young
man; "the mastery of yonder village of huts," pointing to the neighbouring entrenched camp, "has been
keenly disputed; and he who holds it, is sure to be possessed of this fort, and that which it contains. My days
and my nights have all been passed there, since we
separated, because I thought that duty called me thither. But," he added, with an air of chagrin, which
he endeavoured, though unsuccessfully, to conceal,
"had I been aware, that what I then believed a soldier's conduct, could be so construed, shame would
have been added to the list of reasons."
   "Heyward! -- Duncan!" exclaimed Alice, bending
forward to read his half-averted countenance, until a
lock of her golden hair rested in rich contrast on her
flushed cheek, and nearly concealed the tear that
had started to her anxious eye; "did I think this
idle tongue of mine had pained you, I would silence
it for ever! Cora can say, if Cora would, how
justly we have prized your services, and how deep -- 
I had almost said, how fervent -- is our gratitude!"
   "And will Cora attest the truth of this?" cried
Duncan, suffering the cloud to be chased from his
countenance by a smile of open pleasure. "What
says our graver sister? Will she find an excuse for
the neglect of the knight, in the ardour of a soldier?"
   Cora made no immediate answer, but turned her


face toward the water, as if looking on the plain
sheet of the Horican. When she did bend her dark
eyes on the young man, they were yet filled with an
expression of anguish that at once drove every
thought but that of kind solicitude from his mind.
   "You are not well, dearest Miss Munro!" he exclaimed; "we have trifled, while you are in suffering!"
   "'Tis nothing," she answered, gently refusing his
offered support, with feminine reserve. "That I
cannot see the sunny side of the picture of life, like
this artless but ardent enthusiast," she added, laying
her hand lightly, but affectionately, on the arm of her
anxious sister, "is the penalty of experience, and,
perhaps, the misfortune of my nature. See," she
continued, with an effort, as if determined to shake
off every infirmity, in a sense of duty; "look around
you, Major Heyward, and tell me what a prospect is
this, for the daughter of a soldier, whose greatest happiness is his honour and his military renown!"
   "Neither ought nor shall be tarnished by circumstances, over which he has had no control," Duncan
warmly replied. "But your words recall me to
my own duty. I go now to your gallant father, to
hear his determination in matters of the last moment
to our defence. God bless you in every fortune,
noble -- Cora -- I may, and must call you." She frankly gave him her hand, though her lips quivered, and
her cheeks gradually became of an ashy paleness.
"In every fortune, I know you will be an ornament
and honour to your sex. Alice, adieu" -- his tones
changed from admiration to tenderness -- "adieu,


Alice; we shall soon meet again; as conquerors, I
trust, and amid rejoicings!"
   Without waiting for an answer from either of the
maidens, the young man threw himself down the
grassy steps of the bastion, and moving rapidly across
the parade, he was quickly in the presence of their
father. Munro was pacing his narrow apartment
with a disturbed air, and gigantic strides, as Duncan
entered.
   "You have anticipated my wishes, Major Heyward," he said; "I was about to request this favour."
   "I am sorry to see, sir, that the messenger I so
warmly recommended, has returned in custody of
the French! I hope there is no reason to distrust
his fidelity?"
   "The fidelity of the `Long Rifle' is well known to
me," returned Munro, "and is above suspicion;
though his usual good fortune seems, at last, to have
failed. Montcalm has got him, and with the accursed politeness of his nation, he has sent him in with
a doleful tale, of `knowing how I valued the fellow, he
could not think of retaining him.' A jesuitical way,
that, Major Duncan Heyward, of telling a man of his
misfortunes!"
   "But the general and his succour? -- "
   "Did ye look to the south as ye entered, and
could ye not see them!" said the old soldier, laughing bitterly. "Hoot! hoot! you're an impatient boy,
sir, and cannot give the gentlemen leisure for their
march!"
   "They are coming then? The scout has said as
much?"


    
   "When? and by what path? for the dunce has
omitted to tell me this! There is a letter, it would
seem, too; and that is the only agreeable part of the
matter. For the customary attentions of your Marquis of Montcalm -- I warrant me, Duncan, that he of
Lothian would buy a dozen such marquessates -- but,
if the news of the letter were bad, the gentility of this
French monsieur would certainly compel him to let
us know it!"
   "He keeps the letter, then, sir, while he releases
the messenger?"
   "Ay, that does he, and all for the sake of what
you call your `bonhommie.' I would venture, if the
truth was known, the fellow's grandfather taught the
noble science of dancing!"
   "But what says the scout? he has eyes and ears,
and a tongue! what verbal report does he make?"
   "Oh! sir, he is not wanting in natural organs, and
he is free to tell all that he has seen and heard. The
whole amount is this: there is a fort of his majesty's
on the banks of the Hudson, called Edward, in honour of his gracious highness of York, you'll know,
and it is well filled with armed men, as such a work
should be!"
   "But was there no movement, no signs, of any
intention to advance to our relief?"
   "There were the morning and evening parades,
and when one of the provincial loons -- you'll know,
Duncan, your're half a Scotsman yourself -- when
one of them dropped his powder over his porretch, if
it touched the coals, it just burnt!" Then suddenly
changing his bitter, ironical manner, to one more
grave and thoughtful, he continued; "and yet there
