


vour, Chingachgook," he said, speaking in the
tongue which was known to all the natives who formerly inhabited the country between the Hudson and
the Potomack, and of which we shall give a free
translation for the benefit of the reader; endeavouring, at the same time, to preserve some of the peculiarities, both of the individual and of the language.
"Your fathers came from the setting sun, crossed the
big river, fought the people of the country, and took
the land; and mine came from the red sky of the
morning, over the salt lake, and did their work much
after the fashion that had been set them by yours;
then let God judge the matter between us, and friends
spare their words!"
   "My fathers fought with the naked red-man!" returned the Indian, sternly, in the same language;
"Is there no difference, Hawk-eye, between the
stone-headed arrow of the warrior, and the leaden
bullet with which you kill?"
   "There is reason in an Indian, though nature has
made him with a red skin!" said the white man,
shaking his head, like one on whom such an appeal
to his justice was not thrown away. For a moment
he appeared to be conscious of having the worst of the
argument, then rallying again, he answered to the
objection of his antagonist in the best manner his
limited information would allow: "I am no scholar,
and I care not who knows it; but judging from what
I have seen at deer chaces, and squirrel hunts, of the
sparks below, I should think a rifle in the hands of
their grandfathers, was not so dangerous as a hickory


bow, and a good flint-head might be, if drawn with
Indian judgment, and sent by an Indian eye."
   "You have the story told by your fathers," returned the other, coldly waving his hand, in proud disdain. "What say your old men? do they tell the
young warriors, that the pale-faces met the red-men,
painted for war and armed with the stone hatchet or
wooden gun?"
   "I am not a prejudiced man, nor one who vaunts
himself on his natural privileges, though the worst
enemy I have on earth, and he is an Iroquois, daren't
deny that I am genuine white," the scout replied,
surveying, with secret satisfaction, the faded colour
of his bony and sinewy hand; "and I am willing
to own that my people have many ways, of which, as
an honest man, I can't approve. It is one of their customs to write in books what they have done and seen,
instead of telling them in their villages, where the lie
can be given to the face of a cowardly boaster, and
the brave soldier can call on his comrades to witness
for the truth of his words. In consequence of this bad
fashion, a man who is too conscientious to mispend
his days among the women, in learning the names of
black marks, may never hear of the deeds of his
fathers, nor feel a pride in striving to outdo them.
For myself, I conclude all the Bumppos could shoot;
for I have a natural turn with a rifle, which must have
been handed down from generation to generation, as
our holy commandments tell us, all good and evil
gifts are bestowed; though I should be loth to answer
for other people in such a matter. But every story


has its two sides; so I ask you, Chingachgook, what
passed when our fathers first met?"
   A silence of a minute succeeded, during which the
Indian sat mute; then, full of the dignity of his office,
he commenced his brief tale, with a solemnity that
served to heighten its appearance of truth.
   "Listen, Hawk-eye, and your ears shall drink no
lies. 'Tis what my fathers have said, and what the
Mohicans have done." He hesitated a single instant,
and bending a cautious glance towards his companion,
he continued in a manner that was divided between
interrogation and assertion -- "does not this stream at
our feet, run towards the summer, until its waters
grow salt, and the current flows upward!"
   "It can't be denied, that your traditions tell you
true in both these matters," said the white man; "for
I have been there, and have seen them; though, why
water, which is so sweet in the shade, should become
bitter in the sun, is an alteration for which I have
never been able to account."
   "And the current!" demanded the Indian, who
expected his reply with that sort of interest that a
man feels in the confirmation of testimony, at which
he marvels even while he respects it; "the fathers
of Chingachgook have not lied!"
   "The Holy Bible is not more true, and that is the
truest thing in nature. They call this up-stream current the tide, which is a thing soon explained, and
clear enough. Six hours the waters run in, and six
hours they run out, and the reason is this; when
there is higher water in the sea than in the river, it


runs in, until the river gets to be highest, and then it
runs out again."
   "The waters in the woods, and on the great lakes,
run downward until they lie like my hand," said the
Indian, stretching the limb horizontally before him,
"and then they run no more."
   "No honest man will deny it," said the scout, a little nettled at the implied distrust of his explanation
of the mystery of the tides; "and I grant that it is true
on the small scale, and where the land is level. But
every thing depends on what scale you look at things.
Now, on the small scale, the 'arth is level; but on
the large scale it is round. In this manner, pools
and ponds, and even the great fresh water lakes, may
be stagnant, as you and I both know they are, having
seen them; but when you come to spread water over
a great tract, like the sea, where the earth is round,
how in reason can the water be quiet? You might as
well expect the river to lie still on the brink of those
black rocks a mile above us, though your own ears
tell you that it is tumbling over them at this very
moment!"
   If unsatisfied by the philosophy of his companion,
the Indian was far too dignified to betray his unbelief.
He listened like one who was convinced, and resumed his narrative in his former solemn manner.
   "We came from the place where the sun is hid at
night, over great plains where the buffaloes live, until
we reached the big river. There we fought the Alligewi, till the ground was red with their blood.
From the banks of the big river to the shores of the
salt lake, there were none to meet us. The Ma


quas followed at a distance. We said the country
should be ours from the place where the water runs
up no longer, on this stream, to a river, twenty suns'
journey toward the summer. The land we had taken
like warriors, we kept like men. We drove the Maquas into the woods with the bears. They only
tasted salt at the licks; they drew no fish from the
great lake: we threw them the bones."
   "All this I have heard and believe," said the
white man, observing that the Indian paused; "but
it was long before the English came into the country."
   "A pine grew then, where this chestnut now stands.
The first pale faces who came among us spoke no
English. They came in a large canoe, when my fathers had buried the tomahawk with the red men
around them. Then, Hawk-eye," he continued, betraying his deep emotion, only by permitting his voice
to fall to those low, guttural tones, which render his
language, as spoken at times, so very musical; "then,
Hawk-eye, we were one people, and we were happy.
The salt lake gave us its fish, the wood its deer, and
the air its birds. We took wives who bore us children; we worshipped the Great Spirit; and we kept
the Maquas beyond the sound of our songs of triumph!"
   "Know you any thing of your own family, at that
time?" demanded the white. "But you are a just
man for an Indian! and as I suppose you hold their
gifts, your fathers must have been brave warriors, and
wise men at the council fire."
   "My tribe is the grandfather of nations," said the


native, "but I am an unmixed man. The blood of
chiefs is in my veins, where it must stay for ever.
The Dutch landed, and gave my people the firewater; they drank until the heavens and the earth
seemed to meet, and they foolishly thought they had
found the Great Spirit. Then they parted with their
land. Foot by foot, they were driven back from the
shores, until I, that am a chief and a Sagamore, have
never seen the sun shine but through the trees, and
have never visited the graves of my fathers."
   "Graves bring solemn feelings over the mind,"
returned the scout, a good deal touched at the calm
suffering of his companion; "and often aid a man in
his good intentions, though, for myself, I expect to
leave my own bones unburied, to bleach in the woods,
or to be torn asunder by the wolves. But where are
to be found your race, which came to their kin in
the Delaware country, so many summers since?"
   "Where are the blossoms of those summers! -- fallen, one by one: so all of my family departed, each
in his turn, to the land of spirits. I am on the hill-top,
and must go down into the valley; and when Uncas
follows in my footsteps, there will no longer be any
of the blood of the Sagamores, for my boy is the last
of the Mohicans."
   "Uncas is here!" said another voice, in the same
soft, guttural tones, near his elbow; "who wishes Uncas?"
   The white man loosened his knife in its leathern
sheath, and made an involuntary movement of the
hand towards his rifle, at this sudden interruption,
