


might, and must be, something in that letter, which it
would be well to know!"
   "Our decision should be speedy," said Duncan,
gladly availing himself of this change of humour, to
press the more important objects of their interview; "I cannot conceal from you, sir, that the camp
will not be much longer tenable; and I am sorry to
add, that things appear no better in the fort; -- more
than half our guns are bursted."
   "And how should it be otherwise! some were
fished from the bottom of the lake; some have been
rusting in the woods since the discovery of the country; and some were never guns at all -- mere privateersmen's playthings! Do you think, sir, you can
have Woolich Warren in the midst of a wilderness;
three thousand miles from Great Britain!"
   "Our walls are crumbling about our ears, and
provisions begin to fail us," continued Heyward,
without regarding this new burst of indignation;
"even the men show signs of discontent and alarm."
   "Major Heyward," said Munro, turning to his
youthful associate with all the dignity of his years
and superior rank; "I should have served his majesty for half a century, and earned these gray hairs,
in vain, were I ignorant of all you say, and of the
pressing nature of our circumstances; still, there is
every thing due to the honour of the king's arms,
and something to ourselves. While there is hope of
succour, this fortress will I defend, though it be to be
done with pebbles gathered on the lake shore. It is
a sight of the letter, therefore, that we want, that we


may know the intentions of the man, the Earl of Loudon has left among us as his substitute?"
   "And can I be of service in the matter."
   "Sir, you can; the Marquis of Montcalm has, in
addition to his other civilities, invited me to a personal interview between these works and his own
camp; in order, as he says, to impart some additional information. Now, I think it would not be
wise to show any undue solicitude to meet him, and
I would employ you, an officer of rank, as my substitute; for it would but ill comport with the honour of
Scotland, to let it be said, one of her gentlemen was
outdone in civility, by a native of any other country
on earth!"
   Without assuming the supererogatory task of entering into a discussion of the comparative merits of national courtesy, Duncan cheerfully assented to supply the place of the veteran, in the approaching interview. A long and confidential communication now
succeeded, during which the young man received
some additional insight into his duty, from the experience and native acuteness of his commander, and
then the former took his leave.
   As Duncan could only act as the representative of
the commandant of the fort, the ceremonies which
should have accompanied a meeting between the
heads of the adverse forces, were of course dispensed
with. The truce still existed, and with a roll and
beat of the drum, and covered by a little white flag,
Duncan left the sally-port, within ten minutes after
his instructions were ended. He was received by
the French officer in advance, with the usual forma


lities, and immediately accompanied to the distant
marquee of the renowned soldier, who lead the forces
of France.
   The general of the enemy received the youthful
messenger, surrounded by his principal officers, and
by a swarthy band of the native chiefs, who had followed him to the field, with the warriors of their several tribes. Heyward paused short, when, in glancing his eyes rapidly over the dark groupe of the latter, he beheld the malignant countenance of Magua,
regarding him with the calm but sullen attention
which marked the expression of that subtle savage. A slight exclamation of surprise even burst
from the lips of the young man; but, instantly recollecting his errand, and the presence in which he
stood, he suppressed every appearance of emotion,
and turned to the hostile leader, who had already advanced a step to receive him.
   The Marquis of Montcalm was, at the period of
which we write, in the flower of his age, and it may
be added, in the zenith of his fortunes. But even
in that enviable situation, he was affable, and distinguished as much for his attention to the forms of courtesy, as for that chivalrous courage, which, only two
short years afterwards, induced him to throw away
his life, on the plains of Abraham. Duncan, in turning his eyes from the malign expression of Magua,
suffered them to rest with pleasure on the smiling
and polished features, and the noble, military air of
the French general.
   "Monsieur," said the latter, "J'ai beaucoup de
plaisir à -- bah! où est cet interprête?"


    
   "Je crois, monsieur, qu'il ne sera pas nécessaire,"
Heyward modestly replied; "je parle un peu Français."
   "Ah! j'en suis bien aise," said Montcalm, taking
Duncan familiarly by the arm, and leading him deep
into the marquee, a little out of ear-shot; "je déteste
ces fripons là; on ne sait jamais sur quel piè, on est
avec eux. Eh, bien! monsieur," he continued, still
speaking in French; "though I should have been
proud of receiving your commandant, I am very happy that he has seen proper to employ an officer so distinguished, and who, I am sure, is so amiable, as yourself."
   Duncan bowed low, pleased with the compliment,
in spite of a most heroic determination to suffer no
artifice to lure him into a forgetfulness of the interests of his prince; and Montcalm, after a pause of a
moment, as if to collect his thoughts, proceeded -- 
   "Your commandant is a brave man, and well
qualified to repel my assaults. Mais, monsieur, is
it not time to begin to take more counsel of humanity, and less of your own courage? The one as
strongly characterizes the hero, as the other!"
   "We consider the qualities as inseparable," returned Duncan, smiling; "but, while we find in the
vigour of your excellency, every motive to stimulate
the one, we can, as yet, see no particular call for the
exercise of the other."
   Montcalm, in his turn, slightly bowed, but it was
with the air of a man too practised to remember the
language of flattery. After musing a moment, he
added -- 


    
   "It is possible my glasses have deceived me, and
that your works resist our cannon better than I had
supposed. You know our force?"
   "Our accounts vary," said Duncan, carelessly;
"the highest, however, has not exceeded twenty thousand men."
   The Frenchman bit his lip, and fastened his eyes
keenly on the other, as if to read his thoughts; then,
with a readiness peculiar to himself, he continued, as
if assenting to the truth of an enumeration, which he
knew was not credited by his visiter.
   "It is a poor compliment to the vigilance of us soldiers, monsieur, that, do what we will, we never can
conceal our numbers. If it were to be done at all,
one would believe it might succeed in these woods.
Though you think it too soon to listen to the calls of
humanity," he added, smiling, archly, "I may be
permitted to believe that gallantry is not forgotten by
one so young as yourself. The daughters of the
commandant, I learn, have passed into the fort,
since it was invested?"
   "It is true, monsieur; but so far from weakening
our efforts, they set us an example of courage in their
own fortitude. Were nothing but resolution necessary to repel so accomplished a soldier, as M. de
Montcalm, I would gladly trust the defence of William Henry to the elder of those ladies."
   "We have a wise ordinance in our Salique laws,
which says, `the crown of France shall never descend
the lance to the distaff,' " said Montcalm, dryly, and
with a little hauteur; but, instantly adding, with
his former frank and easy air, "as all the nobler


