
qualities are hereditary, I can easily credit you; though,
as I said before, courage has its limits, and humanity
must not be forgotten. I trust, monsieur, you come
authorized to treat for the surrender of the place?"
   "Has your excellency found our defence so feeble, as to believe the measure necessary!"
   "I should be sorry to have the defence protracted
in such a manner, as to irritate my red friends there,"
continued Montcalm, glancing his eyes at the groupe
of grave and attentive Indians, without attending to
the other's question; "I find it difficult, even now,
to limit them to the usages of war."
   Heyward was silent; for a painful recollection of
the dangers he had so recently escaped came over
his mind, and recalled the images of those defenceless
beings, who had shared in all his sufferings.
   "Ces messieurs là," said Montcalm, following up
the advantage which he conceived he had gained,
"are most formidable when baffled; and it is unnecessary to tell you, with what difficulty they are restrained in their anger. Eh bien, monsieur! shall
we speak of the terms of the surrender?"
   "I fear your excellency has been deceived as to
the strength of William Henry, and the resources of
its garrison!"
   "I have not set down before Quebec, but an earthen work, that is defended by twenty-three hundred
gallant men," was the laconic, though polite reply.
   "Our mounds are earthen, certainly -- nor are they
seated on the rocks of Cape Diamond; -- but they
stand on that shore which proved so destructive to
Dieskau, and his brave army. There is also a pow


erful force within a few hours march of us, which we
account upon as part of our means of defence."
   "Some six or eight thousand men," returned
Montcalm, with much apparent indifference, "whom
their leader, wisely, judges to be safer in their works,
than in the field."
   It was now Heyward's turn to bite his lip with
vexation, as the other so coolly alluded to a force
which the young man knew to be overrated. Both
mused a little while in silence, when Montcalm renewed the conversation, in a way that showed he
believed the visit of his guest was, solely, to propose
terms of capitulation. On the other hand, Heyward began to throw sundry inducements in the way
of the French general, to betray the discoveries he
had made through the intercepted letter. The artifice of neither, however, succeeded; and, after a protracted and fruitless interview, Duncan took his
leave, favourably impressed with an opinion of the
courtesy and talents of the enemy's captain, but as
ignorant of what he came to learn, as when he arrived.
Montcalm followed him as far as the entrance of the
marquee, renewing his invitations to the commandant
of the fort, to give him an immediate meeting in the
open ground, between the two armies.
   There they separated, and Duncan returned to
the advanced post of the French, accompanied as before; whence he instantly proceeded to the fort, and
to the quarters of his own commander.


Chapter 14
CHAPTER XIV.
"Edg.
    -- Before you fight the battle, ope this letter."
-- 
Lear. 
    
   Major Heyward found Munro attended only by
his daughters. Alice sate upon his knee, parting the
gray hairs on the forehead of the old man, with her
delicate fingers; and whenever he affected to frown
on her trifling, appeasing his assumed anger, by
pressing her ruby lips fondly on his wrinkled brow.
Cora was seated nigh them, a calm and amused looker-on; regarding the wayward movements of her
more youthful sister, with that species of maternal
fondness, which characterised her love for Alice.
Not only the dangers through which they had passed,
but those which still impended above them, appeared to be momentarily forgotten, in the soothing indulgence of such a family meeting. It seemed as if they
had profited by the short truce, to devote an instant
to the purest and best affections: the daughters forgetting their fears, and the veteran his cares, in the
stillness and security of the moment. Of this scene,
Duncan, who, in his eagerness to report his arrival,
had entered unannounced, stood many moments an
unobserved and a delighted spectator. But the quick
and dancing eyes of Alice soon caught a glimpse of his
figure, reflected from a glass, and she sprang blush


ing from her father's knee, exclaiming aloud, in her
surprise -- 
   "Major Heyward!"
   "What of the lad?" demanded her father; "I
have sent him to crack a little with the Frenchman.
Ha! sir, you are young, and your're nimble! Away
with you, ye baggage; as if there were not troubles
enough for a soldier, without having his camp filled
with such prattling hussies as yourself!"
   Alice laughingly followed her sister, who instantly
led the way from an apartment, where she perceived
their presence was no longer desirable. Munro, instead of demanding the result of the young man's
mission, paced the room for a few moments, with his
hands behind his back, and his head inclined towards
the floor, like a man lost in deep thought. At length,
he raised his eyes, glistening with a father's fondness,
and exclaimed -- 
   "They are a pair of excellent girls, Heyward, and
such as any one may boast of!"
   "You are not now to learn my opinion of your
daughters, Colonel Munro."
   "True, lad, true," interrupted the impatient old
man; "you were about opening your mind more
fully on that matter the day you got in; but I did not
think it becoming in an old soldier to be talking of
nuptial blessings, and wedding jokes, when the enemies of his king were likely to be unbidden guests
at the feast! But I was wrong, Duncan, boy, I was
wrong there; and I am now ready to hear what you
have to say."
   "Notwithstanding the pleasure your assurance


gives me, dear sir, I have, just now, a message from
Montcalm -- "
   "Let the Frenchman, and all his host, go to the
devil, sir!" exclaimed the veteran, frowning severely. "He is not yet master of William Henry, nor
shall he ever be, provided Webb proves himself the
man he should. No, sir! thank heaven, we are not
yet in such a strait, that it can be said, Munro is too
much pressed to discharge the little domestic duties
of his own family! Your mother was the only child
of my bosom friend, Duncan; and I'll just give you a
hearing, though all the knights of St. Louis were in
a body at the sally-port, with the French saint at
their head, craving to speak a word, under favour.
A pretty degree of knighthood, sir, is that which can
be bought with sugar-hogsheads! and then your twopenny marquessates! The Thistle is the order for dignity and antiquity; the veritable `nemo me impune
lacessit' of chivalry! Ye had ancestors in that degree, Duncan, and they were an ornament to the
nobles of Scot and."
   Heyward, who perceived that his superior took a
malicious pleasure in exhibiting his contempt for the
message of the French general, was fain to humour
a spleen that he knew would be short lived; he,
therefore, replied with as much indifference as he
could assume on such a subject -- 
   "My request, as you know, sir, went so far as to
presume to the honour of being your son."
   "Ay, boy, you found words to make yourself very
plainly comprehended! But, let me ask ye, sir; have
you been as intelligible to the girl?"


    
