
   "On my honour, no," exclaimed Duncan, warmly; "there would have been an abuse of a confided
trust, had I taken advantage of my situation, for such
a purpose!"
   "Your notions are those of a gentleman, Major
Heyward, and well enough in their place. But Cora
Munro is a maiden too discreet, and of a mind too
elevated and improved, to need the guardianship,
even of a father."
   "Cora!"
   "Ay -- Cora! we are talking of your pretensions to
Miss Munro, are we not, sir?"
   "I -- I -- I, was not conscious of having mentioned her name," said Duncan, stammering through embarrassment.
   "And, to marry whom, then, did you wish my
consent, Major Heyward," demanded the old soldier, erecting himself in all the dignity of offended
feeling.
   "You have another, and not less lovely child."
   "Alice!" exclaimed the father, in an astonishment
equal to that with which Duncan had just repeated
the name of her sister.
   "Such was the direction of my wishes, sir."
   The young man awaited in silence, the result of
the extraordinary effect produced by a communication which, as it now appeared, was so unexpected.
For several minutes, Munro paced the chamber with
long and rapid strides, his rigid features working convulsively, and every faculty seemingly absorbed in
the musings of his own mind. At length, he paused
directly in front of Heyward, and riveting his eyes


upon those of the other, he said, with a lip that quivered violently with his emotions -- 
   "Duncan Heyward, I have loved you for the
sake of him whose blood is in your veins; I have
loved you for your own good qualities; and I have
loved you, because I thought you would contribute
to the happiness of my child. But all this love
would turn to hatred, were I assured, that what I so
much apprehend is true!"
   "God forbid that any act or thought of mine should
lead to such a change!" exclaimed the young man,
whose eye never quailed under the penetrating look
it encountered. Without adverting to the impossibility of the other's comprehending those feelings
which were hid in his own bosom, Munro suffered
himself to be appeased by the unaltered countenance
he met, and with a voice sensibly softened, he continued -- 
   "You would be my son, Duncan, and you're ignorant of the history of the man you wish to call
your father. Sit ye down, young man, and I will open
to you the wounds of a seared heart, in as few words
as may be suitable."
   By this time, the message of Montcalm was as
much forgotten by him who bore it, as by the man
for whose ears it was intended. Each drew a chair,
and while the veteran communed a few moments
with his own thoughts, apparently in sadness, the
youth suppressed his impatience in a look and attitude of respectful attention. At length, the former
spoke -- 
   "You'll know, already, Major Heyward, that my


family was both ancient and honourable," commenced the Scotsman, "though it might not altogether be endowed with that amount of wealth, that
should correspond with its degree. I was, may be,
such an one as yourself, when I plighted my faith to
Alice Graham; the only child of a neighbouring laird
of some estate. But the connexion was disagreeable
to her father, on more accounts than my poverty. I
did, therefore, what an honest man should; restored
the maiden her troth, and departed the country, in
the service of my king. I had seen many regions,
and had shed much blood in different lands, before
duty called me to the islands of the West Indies.
There it was my lot to form a connexion with one
who in time became my wife, and the mother of
Cora. She was the daughter of a gentleman of those
isles, by a lady, whose misfortune it was, if you will,"
said the old man, proudly, "to be descended, remotely, from that unfortunate class, who are so basely enslaved to administer to the wants of a luxurious
people! Ay, sir, that is a curse entailed on Scotland,
by her unnatural union with a foreign and trading
people. But could I find a man among them, who
would dare to reflect her descent on my child, he
should feel the weight of a father's anger! Ha!
Major Heyward, you are yourself born at the south,
where these unfortunate beings are considered of a
race inferior to your own!"
   "'Tis most unfortunately true, sir," said Duncan,
unable any longer to prevent his eyes from sinking to
the floor in embarrassment.
   "And you cast it on my child as a reproash! You


scorn to mingle the blood of the Heywards, with one
so degraded -- lovely and virtuous though she be?"
fiercely demanded the jealous parent.
   "Heaven protect me from a prejudice so unworthy
of my reason!" returned Duncan, at the same time
conscious of such a feeling, and that as deeply rooted
as if it had been engrafted in his nature. "The sweetness, the beauty, the witchery of your younger daughter, Colonel Munro, might explain my motives, without imputing to me this injustice."
   "Ye are right, sir," returned the old man, again
changing his tones to those of gentleness, or rather softness; "the girl is the image of what her mother was
at her years, and before she had become acquainted
with grief. When death deprived me of my wife, I
returned to Scotland, enriched by the marriage; and
would you think it, Duncan! the suffering angel had
remained in the heartless state of celibacy twenty long
years, and that for the sake of a man who could forget her! She did more, sir; she overlooked my want
of faith, and all difficulties being now removed, she
took me for her husband."
   "And became the mother of Alice!" exclaimed
Duncan, with an eagerness, that might have proved
dangerous, at a moment when the thoughts of Munro
were less occupied than at present.
   "She did, indeed," said the old man, the muscles
of his face working powerfully, as he proceeded,
"and dearly did she pay for the blessing she bestowed. But she is a saint in heaven, sir; and it ill becomes one whose foot rests on the grave, to mourn a
lot so blessed. I had her but a single year, though;


a short term of happiness, for one who had seen
her youth fade in hopeless pining!"
   There was something so commanding, if not awful,
in the distress of the old man, that Heyward did not
dare to venture a syllable of consolation. Munro sat
utterly unconscious of the other's presence, his features exposed and working with the anguish of his regrets, while heavy tears fell from his eyes, and rolled
unheeded from his cheeks to the floor. At length he
moved, as if suddenly recovering his recollection;
when he arose, and taking a single turn across the
room, he approached his companion with an air of
high military grandeur, and demanded -- 
   "Have you not, Major Heyward, some communication, that I should hear, from the Marquis de Montcalm?"
   Duncan started, in his turn, and immediately commenced, in an embarrassed voice, to repeat the halfforgotten message. It is unnecessary to dwell upon
the evasive, though polite manner, with which the
French general had eluded every attempt of Heyward to worm from him the purport of the communication he had proposed making, or on the decided,
though still polished message, by which he now gave
his enemy to understand, that unless he chose to receive it in person, he should not receive it at all.
As Munro listened to the lengthened detail of Duncan, the excited feelings of the father gradually gave
way before the obligations of his station, and when
the other was done, he saw before him nothing but
the veteran, swelling with the wounded feelings of a
soldier.


    
   "You have said enough, Major Heyward!" exclaimed the angry old man; "enough to make a volume of commentary on French civility! Here has
this gentleman invited me to a conference, and when
I send him a capable substitute, for ye're all that
Duncan, though your years are but few, he answers
me with a riddle!"
   "He may have thought less favourably of the substitute, my dear sir," returned Duncan, smiling; "and
you will remember that the invitation, which he now
repeats, was to the commandant of the works, and
not to his second."
   "Well, sir, is not a substitute clothed with all the
power and dignity of him who grants the commission!
He wishes to confer with Munro! Faith, sir, I have
much inclination to indulge the man, if it should only
be to let him behold the firm countenance we maintain, in spite of his numbers and his summons!
There might be no bad policy in such a stroke, young
man."
   Duncan, who believed it of the last importance,
that they should speedily come at the contents of the
letter borne by the scout, gladly encouraged this idea,
saying -- 
