
   "Without doubt, he could gather no confidence
by witnessing our indifference."
   "You never said truer word. I could wish, sir,
that he would visit the works in open day, and in the
form of a storming party: that is the least failing
method of proving the countenance of an enemy, and
would be far preferable to the battering system he
has chosen. The beauty and manliness of warfare


has been much deformed, Major Heyward, by the
arts of your Monsieur Vauban. Our ancestors were
far above such scientific cowardice!"
   "It may be very true, sir; but we are, now, obliged
to repel art by art. What is your pleasure in the
matter of the interview?"
   "I will meet the Frenchman, and that without fear
or delay; promptly, sir, as becomes a servant of my
royal master. Go, Major Heyward, and give them a
flourish of the music, and send out a messenger to let
them know who is coming. We will follow with a
small guard, for such respect is due to one who holds
the honour of his king in keeping; and, hark'ee,
Duncan," he added, in a half whisper, though they
were alone, "it may be prudent to have some aid at
hand, in case there should be treachery at the bottom
of it all."
   The young man availed himself of this order, to
quit the apartment; and, as the day was fast coming
to a close, he hastened, without delay, to make the
necessary arrangements. A very few minutes only
were necessary to parade a few files, and to despatch
an orderly with a flag, to announce the approach of
the commandant of the fort. When Duncan had
done both these, he led the guard to the sally-port,
near which he found his superior already, waiting his
appearance. As soon as the usual ceremonials of a
military departure were observed, the veteran, and
his more youthful companion, left the fortress, attended by the escort.
   They had proceeded only a hundred yards from
the works, when the little array which attended the
French general to the conference, was seen issuing


from the hollow way, which formed the bed of a
brook, that ran between the batteries of the besiegers
and the fort. From the moment that Munro left his
own works, to appear in front of his enemies, his air
had been grand, and his step and countenance highly
military. The instant he caught a glimpse of the
white plume that waved in the hat of Montcalm, his
eye lighted with the consciousness of his own daring,
and age no longer appeared to possess any influence
over his vast and still muscular person.
   "Speak to the boys to be watchful, sir," he said,
in an under tone, to Duncan; "and to look well to
their flints and steel, for one is never safe with a servant of these Louis; at the same time, we will show
them the front of men in deep security. Ye'll understand me, Major Heyward!"
   He was interrupted by the clamour of a drum from
the approaching Frenchmen, which was immediately
answered, when each party pushed an orderly in advance, bearing a white flag, and the wary Scotsman
halted, with his guard close at his back. As soon as
this slight salutation had passed, Montcalm moved towards them with a quick but graceful step, baring
his head to the veteran, and dropping his spotless
plume nearly to the earth, in courtesy. If the air of
Munro was more commanding and manly, it wanted
both the ease and insinuating polish of the Frenchman. Neither spoke for a few moments, each regarding the other with curious and interested eyes.
Then, as became his superior rank, and the nature
of the interview, Montcalm first broke the silence.
After uttering the usual words of greeting to Munro,


he turned to Duncan, and continued, with a smile of
recognition, speaking always in French -- 
   "I am rejoiced, monsieur, that you have given us
the pleasure of your company on this occasion.
There will be no necessity to employ an ordinary interpreter, for in your hands I feel the same security,
as if I spoke your language myself."
   Duncan acknowledged the compliment, when
Montcalm, turning to his guard, which, in imitation of
that of their enemies, pressed close upon him, he continued -- 
   "En arriere, mes enfans -- il fait chaud; retirezvous un peu."
   Before Major Heyward would imitate this proof of
confidence, he glanced his eyes around the plain, and
beheld, with uneasiness, the numerous dusky groupes
of savages, who looked out from the margin of the
surrounding woods, curious spectators of the pending
interview.
   "Monsieur de Montcalm will readily acknowledge
the difference in our situation," he said, with some
embarrassment, pointing, at the same time, towards
those dangerous foes, who were to be seen in almost
every direction. "Were we to dismiss our guard, we
should stand here at the mercy of our enemies."
   "Monsieur, you have the plighted faith of `un gentil-homme Francais,' for your safety," returned Montcalm, laying his hand impressively on his heart; "and
it should suffice."
   "It shall. Fall back," Duncan added to the officer who led the escort; "fall back, sir, beyond hearing, and wait for orders."


    
   Munro witnessed this movement with manifest uneasiness; nor did he fail to demand an instant explanation.
   "Is it not our interest, sir, to betray no distrust?"
retorted Duncan. "Monsieur de Montcalm pledges
his word for our safety, and I have ordered the men
to withdraw a little, in order to prove how much we
depend on his assurance."
   "It may be all right, sir, but I have no overweening reliance on the faith of these marquesses, or marquis, as they call themselves. Their patents of nobility are too common, to be certain that they bear
the seal of true honour."
   "You forget, dear sir, that we confer with an officer, distinguished alike in Europe and America, for
his deeds. From a soldier of his reputation we can
have nothing to apprehend."
   The old man made a gesture of resignation, though
his rigid features still betrayed his obstinate adherence
to a distrust, which he derived from a sort of hereditary contempt of his enemy, rather than from any
present signs, which might warrant so uncharitable
a feeling. Montcalm waited, patiently, until this little dialogue in demi-voice was ended, when he drew
nigher, and opened the subject of their conference.
   "I have solicited this interview from your superior, monsieur," he said, "because I believe he
will allow himself to be persuaded, that he has already done every thing which is necessary for the honour
of his prince, and will now listen to the admonitions
of humanity. I will forever bear testimony that his


resistance has been gallant, and was continued, so
long as there was any hope."
   When this opening was translated to Munro, he
answered with dignity, but with sufficient courtesy,
   "However I may prize such testimony from Monsieur Montcalm, it will be more valuable when it shall
be better merited."
   The French general smiled, as Duncan gave him
the purport of this reply, and observed -- 
   "What is now so freely accorded to approved courage, may be refused to useless obstinacy. Monsieur
would wish to see my camp, and witness, for himself,
our numbers, and the impossibility of his resisting
them with success?"
   "I know that the king of France is well served,"
returned the unmoved Scotsman, as soon as Duncan
ended his translation; "but my own royal master has
as many and as faithful troops."
   "Though not at hand, fortunately for us," said
Montcalm, without waiting, in his ardour, for the interpreter. "There is a destiny in war, to which a
brave man knows how to submit, with the same courage that he faces his foes."
   "Had I been conscious that Monsieur Montcalm
was master of the English, I would have spared myself the trouble of so awkward a translation," said
the vexed Duncan, dryly; remembering instantly his
recent by-play with Munro.
   "Your pardon, monsieur," rejoined the Frenchman, suffering a slight colour to appear on his dark
cheek. "There is a vast difference between understanding and speaking a foreign tongue; you will,
