


therefore, please to assist me still." Then after a
short pause, he added, "These hills afford us every
opportunity of reconnoitring your works, messieurs,
and I am possibly as well acquainted with their weak
condition as you can be yourselves."
   "Ask the French general if his glasses can reach to
the Hudson," said Munro, proudly; "and if he
knows when and where to expect the army of Webb."
   "Let général Webb be his own interpreter," returned the politic Montcalm, suddenly extending an
open letter towards Munro, as he spoke; "you will
there learn, monsieur, that his movements are not
likely to prove embarrassing to my army."
   The veteran seized the offered paper without waiting for Duncan to translate the speech, and with an
eagerness that betrayed how important he deemed
its contents. As his eye passed heavily over the
words, his countenance gradually changed from its
look of military pride, to one of deep chagrin; his
lip began to quiver; and, as he suffered the paper
to fall from his hand, his head dropped upon his
chest, like that of a man whose hopes were all
withered at a single blow. Duncan caught the
letter from the ground, and without apology for the
liberty he took, he read, at a glance, its cruel purport. Their common superior, so far from encouraging them to resist, advised a speedy surrender,
urging, in the plainest language, as a reason, the
utter impossibility of his sending a single man to
their rescue.
   "Here is no deception!" exclaimed Duncan, examining the billet both inside and out; "this is the


signature of Webb, and must be the captured letter!"
   "The man has betrayed me!" Munro at length
bitterly exclaimed; "he has brought dishonour to the
door of one, where disgrace was never before known
to dwell, and shame has he heaped heavily on my
gray hairs!"
   "Say not so!" cried Duncan; "we are yet masters of the fort, and of our honour! Let us then sell
our lives at such a rate, as shall make our enemies believe the purchase too dear!"
   "Boy, I thank thee!" exclaimed the old man,
rousing himself from his stupor; "you have, for once,
reminded Munro of his duty. We will go back, and
dig our graves behind those ramparts!"
   "Messieurs," said Montcalm, advancing towards
them a step, in his generous interest; "you little
know Louis de St. Véran, if you believe him capable of profiting by this letter, to humble brave men,
or to build up a dishonest reputation for himself.
Listen to my terms before you leave me."
   "What says the Frenchman," demanded the veteran, sternly; "does he make a merit of having
captured a scout, with a note from head-quarters?
Sir, he had better raise this siege, and go to sit down
before Edward, if he wishes to frighten his enemy
with words!"
   Duncan explained the other's meaning.
   "Monsieur de Montcalm, we will hear you," the
veteran added, more calmly, as Duncan ended.
   "To retain the fort is now impossible," said his
liberal enemy; "it is necessary to the interests of


my master, that it should be destroyed; but, as for
yourselves, and your brave comrades, there is no
privilege dear to a soldier that shall be denied."
   "Our colours?" demanded Heyward.
   "Carry them to England, and show them to your
king."
   "Our arms!"
   "Keep them; none can use them better!"
   "Our march; the surrender of the place?"
   "Shall all be done in a way most honourable to
yourselves."
   Duncan now turned to explain these proposals to
his commander, who heard him with amazement, and
a sensibility that was deeply touched by such unusual
and unexpected generosity.
   "Go you, Duncan," he said; "go with this marquess, as indeed marquess he should be; go to his
marquee, and arrange it all. I have lived to see two
things in my old age, that never did I expect to
behold. An Englishman afraid to support a friend,
and a Frenchman too honest to profit by his advantage!"
   So saying, the veteran again dropped his head to
his chest, and returned slowly towards the fort, exhibiting, in the dejection of his air, to the anxious garrison, a harbinger of evil tidings.
   Duncan remained to settle the terms of the capitulation. He was seen to re-enter the works during
the first watches of the night, and immediately after
a private conference with the commandant, to leave
them again. It was then openly announced, that
hostilities must cease -- Munro having signed a treaty,


by which the place was to be yielded to the enemy,
with the morning; the garrison to retain their arms,
their colours, and their baggage, and consequently,
according to military opinion, their honour.


Chapter 17
CHAPTER XVII.
"Weave we the woof. The thread is spun. 
The web is wove. The work is done." 
-- Gray 
    
