
   Thehostile armies, who lay in the wilds of the
Horican, passed the night of the ninth of August, 1757,
much in the manner that would have prevailed, had
they encountered on the fairest field of Europe.
While the conquered were still, sullen and dejected,
the victors triumphed. But, there are limits, alike,
to grief and joy; and long before the dead watches of
the morning came, the stillness of those boundless
woods was only broken, by a gay call from some exulting young Frenchman of the advanced piquets, or
a menacing challenge from the fort, which sternly
forbade the approach of any hostile footsteps before
the stipulated moment should arrive. Even these
occasional threatening sounds ceased to be heard in
that dull hour which precedes the day, at which period a listener might have sought, in vain, any evidence of the presence of those armed powers, that
then slumbered on the shores of the `holy lake.'
   It was during these moments of deep silence, that
the canvass which concealed the entrance to a spacious marquee, in the French encampment, was
shoved aside, and a man issued from beneath the


drapery into the open air. He was enveloped in a
cloak that might have been intended as a protection
from the chilling damps of the woods, but which served equally well, as a mantle, to conceal his person.
He was permitted to pass the grenadier, who watched
over the slumbers of the French commander, without interruption, the man making the usual salute,
which betokens military deference, as the other passed swiftly through the little city of tents, in the direction of William Henry. Whenever this unknown
individual encountered one of the numberless sentinels, who crossed his path, his answer was prompt,
and as it appeared satisfactory; for he was uniformly
allowed to proceed, without further interrogation.
   With the exception of such repeated, but brief
interruptions, he had moved, silently, from the centre of the camp, to its most advanced outposts, when
he drew nigh the soldier, who held his watch nearest to the works of the enemy. As he approached,
he was received with the usual challenge.
   "Qui vive?"
   "France" -- was the reply.
   "Le mot d'ordre?"
   "La victoire," said the other, drawing so nigh, as
to be heard in a loud whisper.
   "C'est bien," returned the sentinel, throwing his
musket from the charge to his shoulder; "vous vous
promenez bien matin, monsieur!"
   "II est necessaire d'être vigilant, mon enfant," the
other observed, dropping a fold of his cloak, and looking the soldier close in the face, as he passed him,
still continuing his way towards the British fortifica


tion. The man started; his arms rattled heavily,
as he threw them forward, in the lowest and most
respectful salute; and when he had again recovered
his piece, he turned to walk his post, muttering between his teeth,
   "Il faut être vigilant, en vérité! je crois que nous
avons là, un caporal qui ne dort jamais!"
   The officer proceeded, without affecting to hear
the words which escaped the sentinel in his surprise;
nor did he, again, pause, until he had reached the low
strand, and in a somewhat dangerous vicinity to the
western water bastion of the fort. The light of an
obscured moon, was just sufficient to render objects,
though dim, perceptible in their outlines. He, therefore, took the precaution to place himself against the
trunk of a tree, where he leaned, for many minutes,
and seemed to contemplate the dark and silent mounds
of the English works, in profound attention. His
gaze at the ramparts was not that of a curious or idle
spectator; but his looks wandered from point to
point, denoting his knowledge of military usages, and
betraying that his search was not unaccompanied by
distrust. At length he appeared satisfied; and having cast his eyes, impatiently, upward, towards the
summit of the eastern mountain, as if anticipating the
approach of the morning, he was in the act of turning
on his footsteps, when a light sound on the nearest
angle of the bastion, caught his ear, and induced him
to remain.
   Just then a figure was seen to approach the edge
of the rampart, where it stood, apparently, contemplating in its turn the distant tents of the French


encampment. Its head was then turned towards the
east, as though equally anxious for the appearance of
light, when the form leaned against the mound, and
seemed to gaze upon the glassy expanse of the waters,
which, like a submarine firmament, glittered with its
thousand mimic stars. The melancholy air, the hour,
together with the vast frame of the man who thus
leaned, in musing, against the English ramparts, left
no doubt as to his person, in the mind of the observant spectator. Delicacy, no less than prudence,
now urged him to retire; and he had mov'd cautiously round the body of the tree, for that purpose, when
another sound drew his attention, and once more arrested his footsteps. It was a low, and almost inaudible movement of the water, and was succeeded by
a grating of pebbles, one against the other. In a moment, he saw a dark form rise, as it were, out of the
lake, and steal, without farther noise, to the land,
within a few feet of the place where he himself stood.
A rifle next slowly rose between his eyes and the
watery mirror; but before it could be discharged, his
own hand was on the lock.
   "Hugh!" exclaimed the savage, whose treacherous
aim was so singularly and so unexpectedly interrupted.
   Without making any reply, the French officer laid
his hand on the shoulder of the Indian, and led him,
in profound silence, to a distance from the spot, where
their subsequent dialogue might have proved dangerous, and where, it seemed, that one of them, at least,
sought a victim. Then, throwing open his cloak, so
as to expose his uniform, and the cross of St. Louis,


which was suspended at his breast, Montcalm sternly
demanded -- 
   "What means this! does not my son know, that
the hatchet is buried between the English and his
Canadian father?"
   "What can the Hurons do?" returned the savage,
speaking, also, though imperfectly, in the French language. "Not a warrior has a scalp, and the pale
faces make friends!"
   "Ha! le Renard Subtil! Methinks this is an excess of zeal for a friend, who was so late an enemy!
How many suns have set, since le Renard struck the
war post of the English?"
   "Where is that sun!" demanded the sullen savage.
"Behind the hill; and it is dark and cold. But when
he comes again, it will be bright and warm. Le Subtil is the sun of his tribe. There have been clouds,
and many mountains between him and his nation;
but now he shines, and it is a clear sky!"
   "That le Renard has power with his people, I well
know," said Montcalm; "for yesterday he hunted
for their scalps, and to-day, they hear him at the
council fire!"
   "Magua is a great chief!"
   "Let him prove it, by teaching his nation how to
conduct towards our new friends!"
   "Why did the chief of the Canadas bring his young
men into the woods, and fire his cannon at yonder
earthen house?" demanded the subtle Indian.
   "To subdue it. My master owns the land, and
your father was ordered to drive off these English


squatters. They have consented to go, and now he
calls them enemies no longer."
   "'Tis well. Magua took the hatchet to colour it
with blood. It is now bright; when it is red, it shall
be buried."
   "But Magua is pledged not to sully the lilies of
France. The enemies of the great king across the salt
lake, are his enemies; his friends, the friends of the
Hurons."
   "Friends!" repeated the Indian, in bitter scorn.
"Let his father give Magua a hand."
   Montcalm, who felt that his influence over the
warlike tribes he had gathered, was to be maintained
by concession, rather than by power, complied, reluctantly, with the other's request. The savage placed
the finger of the French commander on a deep scar
in his bosom, and then exultingly demanded -- 
   "Does my father know that?"
   "What warrior does not! 'tis where the leaden
bullet has cut."
   "And this!" continued the Indian, who had turned his naked back to the other, his body being without its usual calico mantle.
   "This! -- my son, has been sadly injured, here! who
has done this?"
