
   "Magua slept hard in the English wigwams, and the
sticks have left their mark," returned the savage,
with a hollow laugh, which did not, nor could not,
however, conceal the fierce temper that nearly
choked him. Then, recollecting himself, with sudden and native dignity, he added -- "Go; teach your
young men, it is peace! le Renard Subtil knows how
to speak to a Huron warrior!"


    
   Without deigning to bestow farther words, or to
wait for any answer, the savage cast his rifle into the
hollow of his arm, and moved, silently, through the
encampment towards the woods, where his own tribe
was known to lie. Every few yards, as he proceeded,
he was challenged by the sentinels; but he stalked, sullenly, onward, utterly disregarding the summons of the
soldiers, who only spared his life, because they knew
the air and tread, no less than the obstinate daring,
of an Indian.
   Montcalm lingered long and melancholy on the
strand, where he had been left by his companion,
brooding deeply on the temper which his ungovernable ally had just discovered. Already had his fair
fame been tarnished by one horrid scene, and in circumstances fearfully resembling those, under which
he now found himself. As he mused, he became
keenly sensible of the deep responsibility they assume,
who disregard the means to attain their end, and of all
the danger of setting in motion an engine, which
it exceeds human power to control. Then shaking off a train of reflections, that he accounted a weakness in such a moment of triumph, he retraced his
steps towards his tent, giving the order, as he passed,
to make the signal that should call the army from
its slumbers.
   The first tap of the French drums was echoed from
the bosom of the fort; and, presently, the valley was
filled with the strains of martial music, rising long,
thrilling, and lively, above the rattling accompaniment. The horns of the victors sounded merry and
cheerful flourishes, until the last laggard of the camp


was at his post; but the instant the British fifes had
blown their shrill signal, they became mute. In the
mean time the day had dawned, and when the line of
the French army was ready to receive its general, the
rays of a brilliant sun were glancing along its glittering
array. Then, that success which was already so well
known, was officially announced; the favoured band,
who were selected to guard the gates of the fort, were
detailed, and defiled before their chief; the signal of
their approach was given, and all the usual preparations for a change of masters, were ordered and executed directly under the guns of the contested works.
   A very different scene presented itself within
the lines of the Anglo-American army. As soon as
the warning signal was given, it exhibited all the signs
of a hurried and forced departure. The sullen soldiers shouldered their empty tubes, and fell into their
places, like men whose blood had been heated by
the past contest, and who only desired the opportunity to revenge an indignity, which was still wounding to their pride, concealed, as it was, under all the
observances of military etiquette. Women and children ran from place, to place, some bearing the scanty
remnants of their baggage, and others searching, in
the ranks, for those countenances they looked up to
for protection.
   Munro appeared among his silent troops, firm, but
dejected. It was evident that the unexpected blow
had struck deep into his heart, though he struggled to
sustain his misfortune with the port of a man.
   Duncan was touched at the quiet and impressive
exhibition of his grief. He had discharged his own


duty, and he now pressed to the side of the old man,
to know in what particular he might serve him.
   "My daughters," was the brief, but expressive
reply.
   "Good heavens! Are not arrangements already
made for their convenience?"
   "To-day I am only a soldier, Major Heyward,"
said the veteran. "All that you see here, claim alike
to be my children."
   Duncan had heard enough. Without losing one
of those moments which had now become so precious, he flew towards the quarters of Munro, in quest
of the sisters. He found them on the threshold of
the low edifice, already prepared to depart, and surrounded by a clamorous and weeping assemblage of
their own sex, that had gathered about the place,
with a sort of instinctive consciousness, that it was
the point most likely to be protected. Though the
cheeks of Cora were pale, and her countenance anxious, she had lost none of her firmness; but the eyes
of Alice were inflamed, and betrayed how long and
bitterly she had wept. They both, however, received the young man with undisguised pleasure; the
former, for a novelty, being the first to speak.
   "The fort is lost," she said, with a melancholy
smile; "though our good name, I trust, remains!"
   "'Tis brighter than ever! But, dearest Miss Munro, it is time to think less of others, and to make some
provision for yourself. Military usage -- pride -- that
pride on which you so much value yourself, demands
that your father and I should, for a little while, continue with the troops. Then where to seek a proper


protecter for you, against the confusion and chances
of such a scene!" -- 
   "None is necessary," returned Cora; "who
will dare to injure or insult the daughter of such a
father, at a time like this!"
   "I would not leave you alone," continued the
youth, looking about him in a hurried manner, "for
the command of the best regiment in the pay of the
king! Remember, our Alice is not gifted with all your
firmness, and God only knows the terror she might
endure."
   "You may be right," Cora replied, smiling again,
but far more sadly than before. "Listen; chance
has already sent us a friend when he is most needed."
   Duncan did listen, and on the instant comprehended her meaning. The low, and serious sounds of the
sacred music, so well known to the eastern provinces,
caught his ear, and instantly drew him to an apartment
in an adjacent building, which had, already, been deserted by its customary tenants. There he found David, pouring out his pious feelings, through the only
medium in which he ever indulged. Duncan waited,
until by the cessation of the movement of the hand,
he believed the strain was ended, when, by touching
his shoulder, he drew the attention of the other to
himself, and in a few words explained his wishes.
   "Even so," replied the single minded disciple of
the King of Israel, when the young man had ended; "I
have found much that is comely and melodious in the
maidens, and it is fitting that we, who have consorted
in so much peril, should abide together in peace.
I will attend them, when I have completed my


morning praise, to which nothing is now wanting,
but the doxology. Wilt thou bear a part, friend?
The metre is common, and the tune known as
`Southwell."'
   Then, extending the little volume, and giving the
pitch of the air, anew, with considerate attention.
David re-commenced and finished his strains, with a
fixedness of manner that it was not easy to interrupt.
Heyward was fain to wait until the verse was ended;
when seeing David relieving himself from the spectacles, and replacing the book, he continued -- 
   "It will be your duty, to see that none dare to approach the ladies, with any rude intention, or to offer
insult or taunt at the misfortune of their brave father.
In this task, you will be seconded by the domestics
of their household."
   "Even so."
   "It is possible, that the Indians and stragglers of the
enemy may intrude; in which case, you will remind
them of the terms of the capitulation, and threaten
to report their conduct to Montcalm. A word will
suffice."
   "If not, I have that here which shall," returned David, exhibiting his book, with an air, in which meekness and confidence were singularly blended. "Here
are words, which uttered, or rather thundered, with
proper emphasis, and in measured time, shall quiet
the most unruly temper.
   "Why rage the heathen furiously!" -- 
   "Enough," said Heyward, interrupting the burst
of his musical invocation; "we understand each
other; it is time that we should, now, assume our
respective duties."


