
    
   Gamut cheerfully assented, and together they immediately sought the maidens. Cora received her new,
and somewhat extraordinary, protector, courteously at
least; and even the pallid features of Alice lighted,
again, with some of their native archness, as she thanked Heyward for his care. Duncan took occasion to
assure them he had done the best that circumstances permitted, and, as he believed, quite enough
for the security of their feelings; of danger there was
none. He then spoke gladly of his intention to rejoin
them, the moment he had led the advance a few miles
towards the Hudson, and immediately took his leave.
   By this time the signal of departure had been given,
and the head of the English column was in motion.
The sisters started at the sound, and glancing their
eyes around, they saw the white uniforms of the
French grenadiers, who had, already, taken possession of the gates of the fort. At that moment, an
enormous cloud seemed to pass suddenly above their
heads, and looking upward, they discovered that they
stood beneath the wide folds of the spotless standard
of France.
   "Let us go," said Cora; "this is no longer a fit
place for the children of an English officer!"
   Alice clung to the arm of her sister, and together
they left the parade, accompanied by the moving
throng, that still surrounded them.
   As they passed the gates, the French officers, who
had learned their rank, bowed often and low, forbearing, however, to intrude those attentions, which
they saw, with peculiar tact, might not be agreeable. As every vehicle, and each beast of burthen,


was occupied by the sick and wounded, Cora had
decided to endure the fatigues of a foot march, rather
than interfere with their comforts. Indeed, many
a maimed and feeble soldier was compelled to drag
his exhausted limbs, in the rear of the columns, for
the want of the necessary means of conveyance, in
that wilderness. The whole, however, was in motion; the weak and wounded, groaning, and in suffering; their comrades, silent, and sullen; and the
women and children in terror, though they knew not
of what.
   As the confused and timid throng, left the protecting mounds of the fort, and issued on the open
plain, the whole scene was, at once, presented to
their eyes. At a little distance on the right, and
somewhat in the rear, the French army stood to their
arms, Montcalm having collected his parties, so soon
as his guards had possession of the works. They
were attentive, but silent observers of the proceedings
of the vanquished, failing in none of the stipulated
military honours, and offering no taunt or insult,
in their success, to their less fortunate foes. Living
masses of the English, to the amount, in the whole,
of near three thousand, were moving slowly across
the plain, towards the common center, and gradually approached each other, as they converged to the
point of their march, a vista cut through the lofty
trees, where the road to the Hudson entered the
forest. Along the sweeping borders of the woods,
hung a dark cloud of savages, eyeing the passage of
their enemies, and hovering, at a distance, like vultures, who were only kept from stooping on their


prey, by the presence and restraint of a superior
army. A few had straggled among the conquered
columns, where they stalked, in sullen discontent; attentive, though, as yet, passive observers of all that
moving multitude.
   The advance, with Heyward at its head, had already reached the defile, and was slowly disappearing,
when the attention of Cora was drawn to a collection
of stragglers, by the sounds of contention. A truant provincial was paying the forfeit of his disobedience, by being plundered of those very effects,
which had caused him to desert his place in the
ranks. The man was of powerful frame, and too
avaricious to part with his goods, without a struggle. Individuals from either party interfered; the
one side to prevent, and the other to aid in the robbery. Voices grew loud and angry, and a hundred
savages appeared, as it were, by magic, where a dozen only had been seen, a few minutes before. It
was, then, that Cora saw the form of Magua, gliding
among his countrymen, and speaking, with his fatal
and artful eloquence. The mass of women and children stopped, and hovered together, like alarmed
and fluttering birds. But the cupidity of the Indian
was soon gratified, and the different bodies, again,
moved slowly onward.
   The savages now fell back, and seemed content to let their enemies advance, without further
molestation. But as the female crowd approached
them, the gaudy colours of a shawl attracted the eyes
of a wild and untutored Huron. He advanced to
seize it, without the least hesitation. The woman,
more in terror, than through love of the ornament,


wrapped her child in the coveted article, and folded
both more closely to her bosom. Cora was in the
act of speaking, with an intent to advise the woman
to abandon the trifle, when the savage relinquished
his hold of the shawl, and tore the screaming infant
from her arms. Abandoning every thing to the
greedy grasp of those around her, the mother darted,
with distraction in her mien, to reclaim her child.
The Indian smiled grimly, and extended one hand,
in sign of a willingness to exchange, while, with the
other, he flourished the babe above his head, holding
it by the feet, as if to enhance the value of the ransom.
   "Here -- here -- there -- all -- any -- every thing!"
exclaimed the breathless woman; tearing the lighter
articles of dress from her person, with ill-directed and
trembling fingers -- "Take all, but give me my babe!"
   The savage spurned the worthless rags, and perceiving that the shawl had already become a prize
to another, his bantering, but sullen smile, changing
to a gleam of ferocity, he dashed the head of the infant against a rock, and cast its quivering remains to
her very feet. For an instant, the mother stood, like
a statue of despair, looking wildly down at the unseemly object, which had so lately nestled in her bosom
and smiled in her face; and then she raised her eyes
and countenance towards heaven, as if calling on God
to curse the perpetrator of the foul deed. She was
spared the sin of such a prayer; for, maddened at his
disappointment, and excited by the sight of blood,
the Huron mercifully drove his tomahawk into her
own brain. The mother sunk under the blow, and
fell, grasping at her child, in death, with the same


engrossing love, that had caused her to cherish it,
when living.
   At that dangerous moment Magua placed his hands
to his mouth, and raised the fatal and appalling whoop.
The scattered Indians started at the well known cry,
as coursers bound at the signal to quit the goal; and,
directly, there arose such a yell along the plain, and
through the arches of the wood, as seldom bursted from
human lips before. They who heard it, listened with
a curdling horror at the heart, little inferior to that
dread which may be expected to attend the blasts of
the final summons.
   More than two thousand raging savages broke from
the forest at the signal, and threw themselves across
the fatal plain with instinctive alacrity. We shall
not dwell on the revolting horrors that succeeded. -- 
Death was every where, and in his most terrific
and disgusting aspects. Resistance only served to
inflame the murderers, who inflicted their furious
blows long after their victims were beyond the power of their resentment. The flow of blood might be
likened to the outbreaking of a gushing torrent; and
as the natives became heated and maddened by the
sight, many among them even kneeled to the earth,
and drank freely, exultingly, hellishly, of the crimson
tide.
   The trained bodies of the troops threw themselves,
quickly, into solid masses, endeavouring to awe their
assailants by the imposing appearance of a military
front. The experiment in some measure succeeded,
though far too many suffered their unloaded muskets
to be torn from their hands, in the vain hope of appeasing the savages.


    
   In such a scene, none had leisure to note
the fleeting moments. It might have been ten minutes, (it seemed an age,) that the sisters had stood,
rivetted to one spot, horror-stricken, and nearly helpless. When the first blow was struck, their screaming companions had pressed upon them in a body,
rendering flight impossible; and now that fear or
death had scattered most, if not all, from around
them, they saw no avenue open, but such as conducted to the tomahawks of their foes. On every side
arose shrieks, groans, exhortations, and curses. At
this moment, Alice caught a glimpse of the vast
form of her father, moving rapidly across the plain,
in the direction of the French army. Ha was, in
truth, proceeding to Montcalm, fearless of every danger, to claim the tardy escort, for which he had before conditioned. Fifty glittering axes, and barbed
spears, were offered unheeded at his life, but the
savages respected his rank and calmness, even in their
greatest fury. The dangerous weapons were brushed aside by the still nervous arm of the veteran, or
fell of themselves, after menacing an act, that it would
seem no one had courage to perform. Fortunately,
the vindictive Magua was searching his victim in the
very band the veteran had just quitted.
   "Father -- father -- we are here!" shrieked Alice,
as he passed, at no great distance, without appearing
to heed them. "Come to us, father, or we die!"
   The cry was repeated, and in terms and tones, that
might have melted a heart of stone, but it was unanswered. Once, indeed, the old man appeared to
catch the sounds, for he paused, and listened; but


