
Alice had dropped senseless on the earth, and Cora
had sunk at her side, hovering, in untiring tenderness,
over her lifeless form. Munro shook his head, in
disappointment, and proceeded, bent on the high
duty of his responsible station.
   "Lady," said Gamut, who, helpless and useless as
he was, had not yet dreamed of deserting his trust,
"it is the jubilee of the devils, and this is not a
meet place for christians to tarry in. Let us up and
fly!"
   "Go," said Cora, still gazing at her unconscious
sister; "save thyself. To me thou canst not be
of further use."
   David comprehended the unyielding character of
her resolution, by the simple, but expressive, gesture, that accompanied her words. He gazed,
for a moment, at the dusky forms that were acting
their hellish rites on every side of him, and his tall
person grew more erect, while his chest heaved, and
every feature swelled, and seemed to speak with the
power of the feelings by which he was gorerned.
   "If the Jewish boy might tame the evil spirit of
Saul, by the sound of his harp, and the words of sacred song, it may not be amiss," he said, "to try the
potency of music here."
   Then raising his voice to its highest tones, he
poured out a strain so powerful as to be heard, even
amid the din of that bloody field. More that one savage
rushed towards them, thinking to rifle the unprotected sisters of their attire, and bear away their scalps;
but when they found this strange and unmoved figure,
rivetted to his post, they paused to listen. Astonish


ment soon changed to admiration, and they passed
on to other, and less courageous victims, openly
expressing their satisfaction at the firmness with which
the white warrior sung his death song. Encouraged
and deluded by his success, David exerted all his
powers to extend what he believed so holy an influence. The unwonted sounds caught the ears of a
distant savage, who flew, raging from groupe to
groupe, like one who, scorning to touch the vulgar
herd, hunted for some victim more worthy of his
renown. It was Magua, who uttered a yell of pleasure when he beheld his ancient prisoners again at
his mercy.
   "Come," he said, laying his soiled hand on the
dress of Cora, "the wigwam of the Huron is open.
Is it not better than this place?"
   "Away!" cried Cora, veiling her eyes from his
revolting aspect.
   The Indian laughed tauntingly as he held up his
reeking hand, and answered -- "It is red, but it comes
from white veins!"
   "Monster! there is blood, oceans of blood, upon
thy soul; thy spirit has moved this scene."
   "Magua is a great chief!" returned the exulting
savage -- "will the dark-hair go to his tribe!"
   "Never! strike, if thou wilt, and complete thy
hellish revenge."
   He hesitated a moment; and then catching the
light and senseless form of Alice in his arms, the
subtle Indian moved swiftly across the plain toward
the woods.
   "Hold!" shrieked Cora, following wildly on his


footsteps, "release the child! wretch! what is't
you do!"
   But Magua was deaf to her voice; or rather he knew
his power, and was determined to maintain it.
   "Stay -- lady -- stay," called Gamut, after the unconscious Cora. "The holy charm is beginning to be
felt, and soon shalt thou see this horrid tumult stilled."
   Perceiving that, in his turn, he was unheeded, the
faithful David followed the distracted sister, raising
his voice again in sacred song, and sweeping the air
to the measure, with his long arm, in diligent accompaniment. In this manner they traversed the plain,
through the flying, the wounded, and the dead. The
fierce Huron was, at any time, sufficient for himself
and the victim that he bore; though Cora would have
fallen, more than once, under the blows of her savage
enemies, but for the extraordinary being who stalked
in her rear, and who now appeared to the astonished
natives gifted with the protecting spirit of madness.
   Magua, who knew how to avoid the more pressing
dangers, and, also, to elude pursuit, entered the woods
through a low ravine, where he quickly found the
Narragansetts, which the travellers had abandoned
so shortly before, awaiting his appearance, in custody
of a savage as fierce and as malign in his expression
as himself. Laying Alice on one of the horses, he
made a sign for Cora to mount the other.
   Notwithstanding the horror excited by the presence of her captor, there was a present relief in
escaping from the bloody scene enacting on the plain,
to which the maiden could not be altogether insensible. She took her seat, and held forth her arms


for her sister, with an air of entreaty and love, that
even the Huron could not deny. Placing Alice,
then, on the same animal with Cora, he seized the
bridle, and commenced his route by plunging deeper into the forest. David, perceiving that he was left
alone, utterly disregarded, as a subject too worthless even to destroy, threw his long limb across the
saddle of the beast they had deserted, and made
such progress in the pursuit, as the difficulties of the
path permitted.
   They soon began to ascend; but as the motion had
a tendency to revive the dormant faculties of her sister, the attention of Cora was too much divided between the tenderest solicitude in her behalf, and in
listening to the cries, which were still too audible on the plain, to note the direction in which
they journeyed. When, however, they gained the
flattened surface of the mountain top, and approached the eastern precipice, she recognised the spot to
which she had, once before, been led, under the more
friendly auspices of the scout. Here Magua suffered
them to dismount, and, notwithstanding their own
captivity, the curiosity which seems inseparable from
horror, induced them to gaze at the sickening sight
below.
   The cruel work was still unchecked. On every
side the captured were flying before their relentless
persecutors, while the armed columns of the Christian King stood fast, in an apathy which has never
been explained, and which has left an immoveable
blot on the, otherwise, fair escutcheon of their leader.
Nor was the sword of death stayed, until cupidity got


the mastery of revenge. Then, indeed, the shriaks
of the wounded, and the yells of their murderers,
grew less frequent, until finally the cries of horror
were lost to their ear, or were drowned in the loud,
long and piercing whoops of the triumphant savages.
END OF VOLUME FIRST. 



    
    
    
