


but the Indian sat composed, and without turning his
head at the unexpected sounds.
   At the next instant, a youthful warrior passed between them, with a noiseless step, and seated himself
on the bank of the rapid stream. No exclamation of
surprise escaped the father, nor was any question
made or reply given for several minutes, each appearing to await the moment, when he might speak,
without betraying a womanish curiosity or childish
impatience. The white man seemed to take counsel
from their customs, and relinquishing his grasp of the
rifle, he also remained silent and reserved. At length
Chingachgook turned his eyes slowly towards his son,
and demanded -- 
   "Do the Maquas dare to leave the print of their
moccasins in these woods?"
   "I have been on their trail," replied the young Indian, "and know that they number as many as the
fingers of my two hands; but they lie hid like cowards."
   "The thieves are outlying for scalps and plunder!"
said the white man, whom we shall call Hawk-eye,
after the manner of his companions. "That busy
Frenchman, Montcalm, will send his spies into our
very camp, but he will know what road we travel!"
   "'Tis enough!" returned the father, glancing his
eye towards the setting sun; "they shall be driven
like deer from their bushes. Hawk-eye, let us eat
to-night, and show the Maquas that we are men tomorrow."
   "I am as ready to do the one as the other," replied the scout; "but to fight the Iroquois, 'tis necessary


to find the skulkers; and to eat, 'tis necessary to get
the game -- talk of the devil and he will come; there
is a pair of the biggest antlers I have seen this season, moving the bushes below the hill! Now, Uncas," he continued in a half whisper, and laughing
with a kind of inward sound, like one who had learnt
to be watchful, "I will bet my charger three times
full of powder, against a foot of wampum, that I take
him atwixt the eyes, and nearer to the right than to
the left."
   "It cannot be!" said the young Indian, springing
to his feet with youthful eagerness; "all but the tips
of his horns are hid!"
   "He's a boy!" said the white man, shaking his head
while he spoke, and addressing the father. "Does
he think when a hunter sees a part of the creatur, he
can't tell where the rest of him should be!"
   Adjusting his rifle, he was about to make an
exhibition of that skill, on which he so much valued
himself, when the warrior struck up the piece with
his hand, saying,
   "Hawk-eye! will you fight the Maquas?"
   "These Indians know the nature of the woods, as
it might be by instinct!" returned the scout, dropping his rifle, and turning away like a man who was
convinced of his error. "I must leave the buck to
your arrow, Uncas, or we may kill a deer for them
thieves, the Iroquois, to eat."
   The instant the father seconded this intimation by
an expressive gesture of the hand, Uncas threw himself on the ground, and approached the animal with
wary movements. When, within a few yards of the


cover, he fitted an arrow to his bow with the utmost
care, while the antlers moved, as if their owner snuffed an enemy in the tainted air. In another moment
the twang of the bow was heard, a white streak was
seen glancing into the bushes, and the wounded buck
plunged from the cover, to the very feet of his hidden
enemy. Avoiding the horns of the infuriated animal,
Uncas darted to his side, and passed his knife across
the throat, when bounding to the edge of the river, it
fell, dying the waters with its blood to a great distance.
   "'Twas done with Indian skill," said the scout,
laughing inwardly, but with vast satisfaction; "and
was a pretty sight to behold! Though an arrow is a
near shot, and needs a knife to finish the work."
   "Hugh!" ejaculated his companion, turning quickly, like a hound who scented his game.
   "By the Lord, there is a drove of them!" exclaimed the hunting scout, whose eyes began to glisten
with the ardour of his usual occupation; "if they come
within range of a bullet, I will drop one, though the
whole Six Nations should be lurking within sound!
What do you hear, Chingachgook? for to my ears the
woods are dumb."
   "There is but one deer, and he is dead," said the
Indian, bending his body, till his ear nearly touched
the earth. "I hear the sounds of feet!"
   "Perhaps the wolves have driven that buck to
shelter, and are following in his trail."
   "No. The horses of white men are coming!" returned the other, raising himself with dignity, and resuming his seat on the log with all his


former composure. "Hawk-eye, they are your
brothers; speak to them."
   "That will I, and in English that the king
needn't be ashamed to answer," returned the hunter,
speaking in the language of which he boasted; "but
I see nothing, nor do I hear the sounds of man or
beast; 'tis strange that an Indian should understand
white sounds better than a man, who, his very enemies will own, has no cross in his blood, although he
may have lived with the red skins long enough to be
suspected! Ha! there goes something like the cracking of a dry stick, too -- now I hear the bushes move
-- yes, yes, there is a tramping that I mistook for the
falls -- and -- but here they come themselves; God
keep them from the Iroquois!"


Chapter 4
CHAPTER IV.
     Well, go thy way; thou shalt not from this grove, 
Till torment thee for this injury. 
Mid. Sum. Night's Dream. 
    
   The words were still in the mouth of the scout,
when the leader of the party, whose approaching
footsteps had caught the vigilant ear of the Indian,
came openly into view. A beaten path, such as
those made by the periodical passage of the deer,
wound through a little glen at no great distance, and
struck the river at the point where the white man
and his red companions had posted themselves.
Along this track the travellers, who had produced a
surprise so unusual in the depths of the forest, advanced slowly towards the hunter, who was in front
of his associates, in readiness to receive them.
   "Who comes?" demanded the scout, throwing
his rifle carelessly across his left arm, and keeping
the fore finger of his right hand on the trigger, though
he avoided all appearance of menace in the act -- 
"Who comes hither, among the beasts and dangers
of the wilderness?"
   "Believers in religion, and friends to the law and
