


to the king," returned he who rode foremost of the
party. "Men who have journeyed since the rising
sun, in the shades of this forest, without nourishment, and are sadly tired of their wayfaring."
   "You are, then, lost," interrupted the hunter,
"and have found how helpless 'tis not to know whether to take the right hand or the left?"
   "Even so; sucking babes are not more dependent on those who guide them, than we who are of
larger growth, and who may now be said to possess
the stature without the knowledge of men. Know
you the distance to a post of the crown called William Henry?"
   "Hoot!" shouted the scout, who did not spare
his open laughter, though, instantly checking the
dangerous sounds, he indulged his merriment at
less risk of being overheard by any lurking enemies.
"You are as much off the scent as a hound would
be, with Horican atwixt him and the deer! William
Henry, man! if you are friends to the king, and
have business with the army, your better way would
be to follow the river down to Edward, and lay the
matter before Webb; who tarries there, instead of
pushing into the defiles, and driving this saucy Frenchman back across Champlain, into his den again."
   Before the stranger could make any reply to this
unexpected proposition, another horseman dashed
the bushes aside, and leaped his charger into the
pathway in front of his companion.
   "What, then, may be our distance from Fort Edward?" demanded a new speaker; "the place you


advise us to seek we left this morning, and our destination is the head of the lake."
   "Then you must have lost your eyesight afore
losing your way, for the road across the portage is
cut to a good two rods, and is as grand a path, I calculate, as any that runs into London, or even before
the palace of the king himself."
   "We will not dispute concerning the excellence
of the passage," returned Heyward, smiling, for, as
the reader has anticipated, it was he. "It is enough,
for the present, that we trusted to an Indian guide to
take us by a nearer, though blinder path, and that
we are deceived in his knowledge. In plain words,
we know not where we are."
   "An Indian lost in the woods!" said the scout,
shaking his head doubtingly; "when the sun is
scorching the tree tops, and the water courses are
full; when the moss on every beech he sees, will tell
him in which quarter the north star will shine at
night! The woods are full of deer paths which run
to the streams and licks, places well known to every
body; nor have the geese done their flight to the
Canada waters, altogether! 'Tis strange that an Indian should be lost atwixt Horican and the bend in
the river! Is he a Mohawk?
   "Not by birth, though he is adopted in that tribe;
I think his birth place was farther north, and he is
one of those you call a Huron."
   "Hugh!" exclaimed the two companions of the
scout, who had continued until this part of the dialogue, seated, immoveable, and apparently indifferent
to what passed, but who now sprang to their feet


with an activity and interest that had evidently gotten
the better of their reserve, by surprise.
   "A Huron!" repeated the sturdy scout, once
more shaking his head in open distrust; "they are
a thievish race, nor do I care by whom they are
adopted; you can never make any thing of them
but skulks and vagabonds. Since you trusted yourself to the care of one of that nation, I only wonder
that you have not fallen in with more."
   "Of that there is little danger, since William
Henry is so many miles in our front. You forget
that I have told you our guide is now a Mohawk, and
that he serves with our forces as a friend."
   "And I tell you that he who is born a Mingo will
die a Mingo," returned the other, positively. "A
Mohawk! No, give me a Delaware or a Mohican
for honesty; and when they will fight, which they
won't all do, having suffered their cunning enemies,
the Maquas, to make them women -- but when they
will fight at all, look to a Delaware or a Mohican for
a warrior!"
   "Enough of this," said Heyward, impatiently; "I
wish not to inquire into the character of a man that
I know, and to whom you must be a stranger. You
have not yet answered my question; what is our distance from the main army at Edward?"
   "It seems that may depend on who is your guide.
One would think such a horse as that might get
over a good deal of ground atwixt sun-up and sundown."
   "I wish no contention of idle words with you,
friend," said Heyward, curbing his dissatisfied man


ner, and speaking in a more gentle voice; "if you
will tell me the distance to Fort Edward, and conduct me thither, your labour shall not go without its
reward."
   "And in so doing, how know I that I don't guide
an enemy, and a spy of Montcalm, to the works of
the army? It is not every man who can speak the
English tongue that is an honest subject."
   "If you serve with the troops of whom I judge
you to be a scout, you should know of such a regiment of the king as the 60th."
   "The 60th! you can tell me but little of the
Royal Americans that I don't know, though I do
wear a hunting shift, instead of a scarlet jacket."
   "Well, then, among other things, you may know
the name of its major?"
   "Its major!" interrupted the hunter, elevating
his body like one who was proud of his trust. "If
there is a man in the country who knows Major Effingham, he stands before you."
   "It is corps which has many majors; the gentleman you name is the senior, but I speak of the
junior of them all; he who commands the companies in garrison at William Henry."
   "Yes, yes, I have heard that a young gentleman of
vastriches, from one of the provinces far south, has got
the place. He is over young, too, to hold such rank,
and to be put above men whose heads are beginning
to bleach; and yet they say he is a soldier in his
knowledge, and a gallant gentleman!"
   "Whatever he may be, or however he may be


qualified for his rank, he now speaks to you, and of
course can be no enemy to dread."
   The scout regarded Heyward a moment in surprise, and then lifting his cap, he answered, in a tone
less confident than before -- though still expressing
doubt -- 
   "I have heard a party was to leave the encampment, this morning, for the lake shore?"
   "You have heard the truth; but I preferred a
nearer route, trusting to the knowledge of the Indian I mentioned."
   "And he deceived you, and then deserted?"
   "Neither, as I believe; certainly not the latter,
for he is to be found in the rear."
   "I should like to look at the creatur; if it is a
true Iroquois I can tell him by his knavish look, and
by his paint," said the scout, stepping past the charger
of Heyward, and entering the path behind the mare
of the singing master, whose foal had taken advantage of the halt to exact the maternal contributions.
After shoving aside the bushes, and proceeding a few
paces, he encountered the females, who awaited the
result of the conference with anxiety, and not entirely without apprehension. Behind these, again,
the runner leaned against a tree, where he stood the
close examination of the scout with an air unmoved,
though with a look so dark and savage, that it might
in itself excite fear. Satisfied with his scrutiny, the
hunter soon left him. As he repassed the females,
he paused a moment to gaze upon their beauty, answering to the smile and nod of Alice with a look of
open pleasure. Thence he went to the side of the
motherly animal, and spending a minute in a fruitless
