


inquiry into the character of her rider, he shook his
head and returned to Heyward. "A Mingo is a
Mingo, and God having made him so, neither the
Mohawks nor any other tribe can alter him," he
said, when he had regained his former position. "If
we were alone, and you would leave that noble
horse at the mercy of the wolves to night, I could
show you the way to Edward myself within an hour,
for it lies only about an hour's journey hence; but
with such ladies in your company, 'tis impossible!"
   "And why? they are fatigued, but are quite equal
to a ride of a few more miles."
   "'Tis a natural impossibility!" repeated the
scout, with a determined air. "I wouldn't walk a
mile in these woods after night gets into them, in
company with that runner, for the best rifle in the
colonies. They are full of outlying Iroquois, and
your mongrel Mohawk knows where to find them too
well, to be my companion."
   "Think you so," said Heyward, leaning forward
in the saddle, and dropping his voice nearly to a
whisper; "I confess I have not been without my
own suspicions, though I have endeavoured to
conceal them, and affected a confidence I have not
always felt, on account of my companions. It was
because I suspected him, that I would follow no
longer; making him, as you see, follow me."
   "I knew he was one of the cheats as soon as I
laid eyes on him!" returned the scout, placing his
finger on his nose in sign of caution. "The thief
is leaning against the foot of the sugar sapling that
you can see over them bushes; his right leg is in a


line with the bark of the tree, and," tapping his rifle,
"I can take him, from where I stand, between the ankle and the knee, with a single shot, putting an end of
his tramping through the woods for at least a month
to come. If I should go back to him, the cunning
varmint would suspect something, and be dodging
through the trees like any frightened deer."
   "It will not do. He may be innocent, and I dislike the act. Though, if I felt confident of his
treachery" -- 
   "'Tis a safe thing to calculate on the knavery of an
Iroquois," said the scout, throwing his rifle forward,
by a sort of instinctive movement.
   "Hold!" interrupted Heyward; "it will not do -- 
we must think of some other scheme; -- and yet I
have much reason to believe the rascal has deceived
me."
   The hunter, who had already abandoned his intention to maim the runner, at the orders of his superior,
mused a moment, and then made a gesture, which instantly brought his two red companions to his side.
They spoke together earnestly in the Delaware language, though in an under tone, and by the gestures
of the white man, which were frequently directed towards the top of the sapling, it was evident he pointed out the situation of their hidden enemy. His
companions were not long in comprehending his
wishes, and laying aside their fire-arms, they parted,
taking opposite sides of the path, and burying themselves in the thicket, with such cautions movements,
that their steps were inaudible.
   "Now go you back," said the hunter, speaking


again to Heyward, "and hold the imp in talk;
these Mohicans here, will take him, without breaking
his paint."
   "Nay," said Heyward, proudly, "I will seize him
myself."
   "Hist! what could you do, mounted, against an
Indian, in the bushes?"
   "But I will dismount."
   "And, think you, when he saw one of your feet
out of the stirrup, he would wait for the other to be
free! Whoever comes into the woods to deal with
the natives, must use Indian fashions, if he would
wish to prosper in his undertakings. Go, then; talk
openly to the miscreant, and seem to believe him
the truest friend you have on 'arth."
   Heyward prepared to comply, though with strong
disgust at the nature of the office he was compelled
to execute. Each moment, however, pressed upon
him a conviction of the critical situation in which he
had suffered his invaluable trust to be involved,
through his own fearless confidence. The sun had
already disappeared, and the woods, suddenly deprived of his light, were assuming a dusky hue, which
keenly reminded him, that the hour the savage usually chose for his most barbarous and remorseless
acts of vengeance or hostility, was speedily drawing
at hand. Stimulated by these quickened apprehensions, he left the scout, without reply, who immediately entered into a loud conversation with the
stranger that had so unceremoniously enlisted himself in the party of the travellers that morning. In
passing his gentler companions, Heyward uttered a


few words of encouragement, and was pleased to
find that, though fatigued with the exercise of the
day, they appeared to entertain no suspicion that
their present embarrassment was other than the result of accident. Giving them reason to believe he
was merely employed in a consultation concerning
their future route, he spurred his charger, and drew
the reins again when the animal had carried him
within a few yards of the place, where the sullen runner still stood leaning against the tree.
   "You may see, Magua," he said, endeavouring
to assume an air of freedom and confidence, "that
the night is closing around us, and yet we are no
nearer to William Henry than when we left the encampment of Webb, with the sun. You have missed
the way, nor have I been more fortunate. But, happily, we have fallen in with a hunter, he whom
you hear talking to the singer, that is acquainted
with the deer-paths and by-ways of the woods, and
who promises to lead us to a place where we may
rest securely till the morning."
   The Indian riveted his glowing eyes on Heyward
as he asked, in his imperfect English, "Is he alone?"
   "Alone!" hesitatingly answered Heyward, to
whom deception was too new to be assumed without
embarrassment. "Oh! not alone, surely, Magua,
for you know that we are with him."
   "Then le Renard Subtil will go," returned the
runner, coolly raising his little wallet from the place
where it had lain at his feet; "and the pale faces will
see none but their own colour."


    
   "Go! Whom call you le Renard?"
   "'Tis the name his Canada fathers have given to
Magua," returned the runner, with an air that manifested his pride at the distinction, though probably
quite ignorant of the character conveyed by the
appellation. "Night is the same as day to le Subtil,
when Munro waits for him."
   "And what account will le Renard give the chief
of William Henry concerning his daughters? will he
dare to tell the hot-blooded Scotsman that his children are left without a guide, though Magua promised to be one?"
   "The gray head has a loud voice, and a long arm,
but will le Renard hear him or feel him in the
woods?" returned the wary runner.
   "But what will the Mohawks say! They will
make him petticoats, and bid him stay in the wigwam with the women, for he is no longer to be
trusted with the business of a man."
   "Le Subtil knows the path to the great lakes,
and can find the bones of his fathers," was the answer of the unmoved runner.
   "Enough, Magua," said Heyward; "are we not
friends! why should there be bitter words between
us? Munro has promised you a gift for your services
when performed, and I shall be your debtor for another. Rest your weary limbs, then, and open your
wallet to eat. We have a few moments to spare; let
us not waste them in talk like wrangling women.
When the ladies are refreshed we will proceed."
   "The pale faces make themselves dogs to their
women," muttered the Indian, in his native language.


