
"and when they want to eat, their warriors must lay
aside the tomahawk to feed their laziness."
   "What say you, Renard?"
   "Le Subtil says it is good."
   The Indian then fastened his eyes keenly on the
open countenance of Heyward, but meeting his
glance, he turned them quickly away, and seating
himself deliberately on the ground, he drew forth the
remnant of some former repast, and began to eat,
though not without first bending his looks slowly and
cautiously around him.
   "This is well," continued Heyward; "and le Renard will have strength and sight to find the path in
the morning;" -- he paused, for sounds like the snapping of a dried stick, and the rustling of leaves, rose
from the adjacent bushes, but recollecting himself
instantly continued -- "we must be moving before the
sun is seen, or Montcalm may lie in our path, and
shut us out from the fortress."
   The hand of Magua dropped from his mouth to
his side, and though his eyes were fastened on the
ground, his head was turned aside, his nostrils expanded, and his ears seemed even to stand more erect
than usual, giving to him the appearance of a statue
that was made to represent intense attention.
   Heyward, who watched his movements with a
vigilant eye, carelessly extricated one of his feet
from the stirrup, while he passed a hand towards the
bear-skin covering of his holsters. Every effort to detect the point most regarded by the runner, was completely frustrated by the tremulous glances of his organs, which seemed not to rest a single instant on any


particular object, and which, at the same time, could
be hardly said to move. While he hesitated how to
proceed, le Subtil cautiously raised himself to his feet.
though with a motion so slow and guarded, that not
the slightest noise was produced by the change.
Heyward felt it had now become incumbent on him to
act; throwing his leg over the saddle, he dismounted,
with a determination to advance and seize his treacherous companion, trusting the result to his own manhood. In order, however, to prevent unnecessary
alarm, he still preserved an air of calmness and
friendship.
   "Le Renard Subtil does not eat," he said, using
the appellation he had found most flattering to the
vanity of the Indian. "His corn is not well parched, and seems dry. Let me examine; perhaps something may be found among my own provisions that
will help his appetite."
   Magua held out the wallet to meet the proffer of
the other. He even suffered their hands to meet,
without betraying the least emotion, or varying his
riveted attitude of attention. But when he felt the
fingers of Heyward moving gently along his own
naked arm, he struck up the limb of the young man,
and uttering a piercing cry, as he darted beneath
it, plunged, at a single bound, into the opposite
thicket. At the next instant, the form of Chingachgook appeared from the bushes, looking like a spectre in its paint, and glided across the path in swift
pursuit. Next followed the shout of Uncas, when
the woods were lighted by a sudden flash, that was
accompanied by the sharp report of the hunter's rifle.


Chapter 5
CHAPTER V.
      -- In such a night, 
Did Thisbe fearfully o'ertrip the dew; 
And saw the lion's shadow ere himself." -- 
Merchant of Venice. 
    
   The suddenness of the flight of his guide, and the
wild cries of the pursuers, caused Heyward to remain fixed, for a few moments, in inactive surprise.
Then recollecting the importance of securing the
fugitive, he dashed aside the surrounding bushes, and
pressed eagerly forward to lend his aid in the chase.
Before he had, however, proceeded a hundred yards,
he met the three foresters already returning from
their unsuccessful pursuit.
   "Why so soon disheartened!" he exclaimed; "the
scoundrel must be concealed behind some of these
trees, and may yet be secured. We are not safe
while he goes at large."
   "Would you set a cloud to chase the wind?" returned the disappointed scout; "I heard the imp,
brushing over the dry leaves, like a black snake, and
blinking a glimpse of him, just over ag'in you big
pine, I pulled as it might be on the scent; but
'twouldn't do! and yet for a reasoning aim, if any
body but myself had touched the trigger, I should


call it a quick sight; and I may be accounted to have
experience in these matters, and one who ought
to know. Look at this sumach; its leaves are
red, though every body knows the fruit is in the yellow blossom, in the month of July!"
   "'Tis the blood of le Subtil! he is hurt, and may
yet fall!"
   "No, no," returned the scout, in decided disapprobation of this opinion, "I rubbed the bark off a limb.
perhaps, but the creatur leaped the longer for it. A
rifle bullet acts on a running animal, when it barks
him, much the same as one of your spurs on a horse;
that is, it quickens motion, and puts life into the flesh,
instead of taking it away. But when it cuts the ragged hole, after a bound or two, there is, commonly, a stagnation of further leaping, be it Indian or be
it deer!"
   "We are four able bodies, to one wounded man!"
   "Is life grievous to you?" interrupted the scout.
"Yonder red devil would draw you within swing of
the tomahawks of his comrades, before you were
heated in the chase. It was an unthoughtful act, in
a man who has so often slept with the war-hoop
ringing in the air, to let off his piece, within sound
of an ambushment! But, then it was a natural temptation! 'twas very natural! Come, friends, let us
move our station, and in such a fashion, too, as will
throw the cunning of a Mingo on a wrong scent, or
our scalps will be drying in the wind in front of Montcalm's marquee, ag'in this hour to-morrow's sundown."
   This appalling declaration, which the scout uttered


with the cool assurance of a man who fully comprehended, while he did not fear to face the danger,
served to remind Heyward of the importance of the
charge with which he himself had been intrusted.
Glancing his eyes around, with a vain effort to pierce
the gloom that was thickening beneath the leafy arches
of the forest, he felt as if, cut off from all human aid,
his unresisting companions would soon lay at the entire mercy of their barbarous enemies, who, like
beasts of prey, only waited till the gathering darkness
might render their blows more fatally certain. His
awakened imagination, deluded by the deceptive light,
converted each waving bush, or the fragment of some
fallen tree, into human forms, and twenty times he
fancied he could distinguish the horrid visages of his
lurking foes, peering from their hiding places, in neverceasing watchfulness of the movements of his party.
Looking upward, he found that the thin fleecy clouds,
which evening had painted on the blue sky, were already losing their faintest tints of rose-colour, while
the embedded stream which glided past the spot where
he stood, was to be traced only by the dark boundary
of its wooded banks.
   "What is then to be done?" he said, feeling the
utter helplessness of doubt in such a pressing strait;
"desert me not, for God's sake! remain to defend
those I escort, and freely name your own reward!"
   His companions, who conversed apart in the language of their tribe, heeded not this sudden and
earnest appeal. Though their dialogue was maintained in low and cautious sounds, but little above a
whisper, Heyward, who now approached, could easily


