
distinguish the earnest tones of the younger warrior.
from the more deliberate speeches of his senior.
It was evident, that they debated on the propriety of
some measure, that nearly concerned the welfare of
the travellers. Yielding to his powerful interest in
the subject, and impatient of a delay that seemed
fraught with so much additional danger, Heyward
drew still nigher to the dusky groupe, with an intention of making his offers of compensation more definite, when the white man, motioning with his hand
as if he conceded the disputed point, turned away,
saying in a sort of soliloquy, and in the English
tongue: -- 
   "Uncas is right! it would not be the act of men,
to leave such harmless things to their fate, even
though it breaks up the harbouring place for ever. If
you would save these tender blossoms from the fangs
of the worst of sarpents, gentleman, you have neither
time to lose nor resolution to throw away!"
   "How can such a wish be doubted! have I not
already offered" -- 
   "Offer your prayers to Him, who can give us wisedom to carcumvent the cunning of the devils who fill
these woods," calmly interrupted the scout, "but
spare your offers of money, which neither you may
live to realize, nor I to profit by. These Mohicans
and I, will do what man's thoughts can invent, to
keep such flowers, which, though so sweet, were never
made for the wilderness, from harm, and that without
hope of any other recompense but such as God always
gives to upright dealings. First, you must promise two
things, both in your own name, and for your friends, or
without serving you, we shall only injure ourselves!"


    
   "Name them."
   "The one is to be still as these sleeping woods,
let what will happen; and the other, is to keep the
place where we shall take you forever a secret from
all mortal men."
   "I will do my utmost to see both these conditions
fulfilled."
   "Then follow, for we are losing moments that are
as precious as the heart's blood to a stricken deer!"
   Heyward could distinguish the impatient gesture of
the scout, through the increasing shadows of the
evening, and moved in his footsteps, swiftly, towards
the place where he had left the remainder of his
party. When they rejoined the expecting and anxious
females, he briefly acquainted them with the conditions of their new guide, and with the necessity that
existed for their hushing every apprehension, in instant and serious exertions. Although his alarming
communication was not received without much secret
terror by the listeners, his earnest and impressive
manner, aided perhaps by the nature of their danger, succeeded in bracing their nerves to undergo
some unlooked for and unusual trial. Silently, and
without a moment's delay, they permitted him to assist
them from their saddles, when they descended,
quickly, to the water's edge, where the scout had collected the rest of the party, more by the agency of
his expressive gestures than by any use of words.
   "What to do with these dumb creaturs!" muttered the white man, on whom the sole control of
their future movements appeared to devolve; "it
would be time lost to cut their throats, and cast them


into the river; and to leave them here, would be to
tell the Mingoes that they have not far to seek to
find their owners!"
   "Then give them their bridles, and let them range
the woods!" Heyward ventured to suggest.
   "No; it would be better to mislead the imps, and
make them believe they must equal a horse's speed
to run down their chase. Ay, ay, that will blind their
fire-balls of eyes! Chingach -- Hist! what stirs the
bush?"
   "The colt."
   "That colt, at least, must die," muttered the
scout, grasping at the mane of the nimble beast,
which easily eluded his hand; "Uncas, your arrows!"
   "Hold!" exclaimed the proprietor of the condemned animal, aloud, without regard to the whispering tones used by the others; "spare the foal of Miriam! it is a comely offspring of a faithful dam, and
would, willingly, injure naught."
   "When men struggle for the single life God has
given them," said the scout, sternly, "even their
own kind seem no more than the beasts of the wood.
If you speak again, I shall leave you to the mercy of
the Maquas! Draw to your arrow's head, Uncas;
we have not time for second blows!"
   The low, muttering sounds of his threatening voice,
were still audible, when the wounded foal, first rearing on its hinder legs, plunged forward to its knees.
It was met by Chingachgook, whose knife passed
across its throat quicker than thought, and then precipitating the motion of the struggling victim, he
dashed it into the river, down whose stream it glided


away, gasping audibly for breath with its ebbing life.
This deed of apparent cruelty, but of real necessity,
fell upon the spirits of the travellers, like a terrific
warning of the peril in which they stood, heightened,
as it was, by the calm though steady resolution of the
actors in the scene. The sisters shuddered, and
clung closer to each other, while Heyward, instinctively, laid his hand on one of the pistols he had just
drawn from their holsters, as he placed himself between his charge and those dense shadows, that seemed to draw an impenetrable veil before the bosom
of the forest.
   The Indians, however, hesitated not a moment,
but taking the bridles, they led the frightened and
reluctant horses down into the bed of the river.
   At a short distance from the shore, they turned,
and were soon concealed by the projection of the
bank, under the brow of which they moved, in a direction opposite to the course of the waters. In the
mean time, the scout drew a canoe of bark from its
place of concealment beneath some low bushes,
whose branches were waving with the eddyings of the
current, into which he silently motioned the females to enter. They complied without hesitation,
though many a fearful and anxious glance was thrown
behind them, towards the thickening gloom, which
now lay like a dark barrier along the margin of the
stream.
   So soon as Cora and Alice were seated, the scout,
without regarding the element, directed Heyward to
support one side of the frail vessel, and posting himself at the other, they bore it up against the stream,


followed by the dejected owner of the dead foal. In
this manner they proceeded, for many rods, in a silence that was only interrupted by the rippling of
the water, as its eddies played around them, or the
low dash made by their own cautious footsteps. Heyward yielded the guidance of the canoe, implicitly,
to the scout, who approached or receded from the
shore, to avoid the fragments of rocks, or deeper parts
of the river, with a readiness that showed his knowledge of the route they held. Occasionally he would
stop; and in the midst of a breathing stillness, that
the dull but increasing roar of the waterfall only served to render more impressive, he would listen with
painful intenseness to catch any living sounds that
might arise from the slumbering forest. When assured that all was still, and unable to detect, even by
the aid of his practised senses, any sign of approaching
foes, he would deliberately resume his slow and
guarded progress. At length they reached a point in
the river, where the roving eye of Heyward became
riveted on a cluster of black objects, which had collected at a spot where the high bank threw a deeper
shadow than usual on the dark waters. Hesitating
to advance, he pointed out the place to the attention
of his companion.
   "Ay," returned the composed scout, "the Indians
have hid the beasts with the judgment of natives!
Water leaves no trail, and an owl's eyes would be
blinded by the darkness of such a hole."
   The whole party was soon reunited, and another
consultation was held between the scout and his new
comrades, during which, they, whose fates depended


on the faith and ingenuity of these unknown foresters,
had a little leisure to observe their situation more
minutely.
   The river was confined between high and cragged
rocks, one of which impended above the spot where
the canoe rested. As these, again, were surmounted
by tall trees, which appeared to totter on the brows
of the precipice, it gave the stream the appearance of
running through a deep and narrow dell. All beneath the fantastic limbs and ragged tree-tops, which
were, here and there, dimly painted against the starry
zenith, lay alike in shadowed obscurity. Behind
them, the curvature of the banks soon bounded the
view, by the same dark and wooded outline; but in
front, and apparently at no great distance, the water
seemed piled against the heavens, whence it tumbled
into caverns, out of which issued those sullen sounds,
that had loaded the evening atmosphere. It seemed,
in truth, to be a spot devoted to seclusion, and the
sisters imbibed a soothing impression of increased
security, as they gazed upon its romantic, though not
unappalling beauties. A general movement among
their conductors, however, soon recalled them from
a contemplation of the wild charms that night
had assisted to lend the place, to a painful sense of
their real peril.
   The horses had been secured to some scattering
shrubs that grew in the fissures of the rocks, where,
standing in the water, they were left to pass the night.
The scout directed Heyward and his disconsolate
fellow travellers to seat themselves in the forward end


